[Held with Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara]  THE PRESIDENT. There are two or three brief announcements before we get into the subject of today's meeting.  MEETING WITH EUGENE BLACK   First, I plan to see Mr. Eugene Black some time either this week or in the early part of next week.  1    I expect I will do it in Washington. As soon as the date is clear, I will inform you.  1 Eugene R. Black, adviser to the President on Southeast Asian social and economic development and former president of the World Bank. On December 16, 1966, the White House announced that Mr. Black, following a tour of Asia, had reported that the outlook for the Vietnamese economy was highly favorable and that "even in the midst of war the foundations of future economic progress are being laid in Vietnam" . LATIN AMERICA   Last weekend I assured Secretary Gordon and Ambassador Linowitz  2  that I wanted to see them as soon as they returned from the trip they are making in this hemisphere. We talked about developments in Latin America.  2 Lincoln Gordon, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs and U.S. Coordinator, Alliance for Progress, and Ambassador Sol M. Linowitz, U.S. Representative to the Council of the Organization of American States and Representative to the Inter-American Commission, Alliance for Progress.  As you know, Ambassador Linowitz recently visited Costa Rica where he met informally with the foreign ministers of the Central American countries. Assistant Secretary Gordon and Ambassador Linowitz will be traveling to South America between now and December 18 to consult with leaders on the Alliance for Progress, and the proposed meeting of Presidents of the American Republics.  They will have a stay of some length in Mexico and visit with the President of Mexico.  I discussed that with the President of Mexico and asked that he see them upon their return from South America. Then they will either come to the ranch or report to me in Washington.  FUNDS FOR RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES   The Federal Home Loan Bank Board has told me that it has reviewed its financial position and has determined that the home loan banks can increase their lending to member savings and loan associations and savings banks by $500 million over the next few months for investment in residential mortgages.  As you know, we released $250 million for special assistance in the purchase of mortgages the other day.  These additional Home Loan Bank Board funds will help to case the shortage of money for investment in home mortgages that has depressed the housing and construction industry in recent months.  The home builders have been especially eager to see some step along this line taken.  I am informed that a large part of the availability of funds reflects the improved flow of savings in Federal Home Loan Bank member institutions as a result of the better competitive environment following the establishment of new interest and dividend rate controls. This was the result of legislation we recommended and Congress passed at the conclusion of the last session. 3    3  See Item 473.  The Federal Home Loan Bank Board has scheduled a meeting for this Friday, December 9th, with its 12 regional bank presidents and their credit offices to give effect to this program.  REVIEW OF DEFENSE BUDGET   We met sometime after 9 o'clock this morning with Secretary McNamara, Under Secretary Vance, Mr. Rostow, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and the Chief of each Service.  We reviewed the anticipated expenditures in Vietnam and in the Department of Defense for the balance of this year; that is, from December through June 30.  We are generally agreed on the best estimates that can be made at this time. We do not think they will be changed materially between now and my State of the Union Message.  We expect to submit a supplemental budget, as we have stated on many other occasions, as soon as the Congress gets back. The precise amount will be given in the State of the Union Message, but it now appears that it will be somewhere between $9 billion and $10 billion additional for fiscal 1967 in expenditures. That will give us a defense budget of somewhere between $67 billion and $68 billion for this entire fiscal year.  As you know, when we submitted the budget, we stated that if hostilities had not concluded in Vietnam we would have to submit a supplemental, and we would do so. Based upon the Chiefs' recommendations, supported by Under Secretary Vance and Secretary McNamara, that supplemental will be transmitted to the Congress in the amount of the best estimate we can give now of somewhere between $9 billion and $10 billion. It will be perfected throughout this month, and any adjustments that can be made will be made. But we think that is a safe and reasonably accurate figure.  We reviewed the plans for the fiscal 1968 Defense budget, and the recommendations made by the individual Services. We had each Chief comment on those recommendations, particularly where there was any difference of opinion between them and the Secretary of Defense.  We found, generally speaking, that the leaders--that is, the Secretary, the Under Secretary, and the Chiefs--were in general agreement. There are a few specific items that are yet to be resolved.  They spoke with frankness and candor, giving me their view-point. We will be reviewing this data from now until the budget goes up.  This represents the fifth meeting, I believe, that I have had with Secretary McNamara. We will have other meetings before he leaves for the NATO meeting, and after his return.  The Chiefs have returned to Washington. I expect to be conferring further with General Wheeler and the individual Chiefs before the budget is finally transmitted.  We made substantial progress today. Mr. McNamara, Mr. Vance, and Mr. Rostow made valuable contributions to my understanding of the needs for the balance of this year and next year.  If you have any questions of any of us, we will be glad to take them.  QUESTIONS 1968 DEFENSE BUDGET  \. No. \. No, I think we will review every request on the basis of a full year's operation and ask for all the funds that the Chiefs, the Secretary, and the President agree will be needed without a supplemental.  TAX INCREASE DECISION  \. I think your question answers itself. The answer is yes. It gives me help. If you are trying to find out if a decision has been made, it has not been. \. I will not go into that speculation until we make the decision. People might get the wrong impression.  I haven't made a decision. I don't want to convey the impression that I have.  QUESTIONS TO SECRETARY MCNAMARA \. Yes, and Mr. Vance and Mr. Rostow.  MILITARY OPERATIONS IN NORTH VIETNAM  \. Before we ended, I commended the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary and Under Secretary for the performance of their men in Vietnam.  I commended them for the economy and efficiency with which the Department was operating in that theater.  I did that based upon reports that I received from our people in the field; in particular, General Westmoreland, who has assured me that in all of his experience in the military field he has never observed an army that was provided for better, that was better trained, that had better equipment, and had it when it needed it, where it needed it.  I attribute a good deal of that to the civilian management of Secretary McNamara and Under Secretary Vance, and the Service Secretaries, and also to the very outstanding administration of the Chiefs themselves.  We went into some detail during the lunch hour on problems of administration. You and the country ought to know that I think we have a very high caliber of men in the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who have done an exceptionally good job, particularly from the standpoint of efficient administration and economy.  THE PRESIDENT'S VIEW OF THE OUTLOOK FOR 1967  \. I would not speculate on that.  FURTHER QUESTIONS TO SECRETARY McNAMARA  1968 DEFENSE BUDGET  \. Fine.  THE DEFENSE BUDGET  \. No. The $250 million will be used in the same field.  They are from different sources. One is from an appropriation of Congress. The other is from the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.  It makes a total of $750 million available in this field thus far--these two announcements, \. Why don't you write a story on this $500 million, and not overdo it today, and we will see.  The answer is no, we have no plans at this time.  QUESTIONS ON THE SECRETARY'S STATEMENT   Q. Mr. Secretary, the statement that you read really touched on most of the points that are made against advancing the antimissile missile program. Is that not so?  SECRETARY MCNAMARA. No. The statement I read had to do with the Soviet offensive force and the degree to which that offensive force might knock out our bombers or our missiles before they had an opportunity to retaliate in response to an attack on us, and, therefore, the need for possible additions to that force. What I said was that last year, as always, we made a prediction of Soviet forces in the future.  The national intelligence estimate is the basis for that. We use that as the foundation of our force planning.  However, last year, recognizing that the Soviets might produce and deploy missiles in excess of the number included in the national intelligence estimate, we took account of that and actually expanded the fiscal 1967 budget to finance these three additional actions, the development of the Poseidon, the additional penetration aids, and the deployment of Minuteman III, in order to take account of this bare possibility that they would go above the national intelligence estimate.  They appear to have done so. Frankly, the amount by which they have accelerated has not been as great as we took account of in this greater than expected case.  It does not relate to antiballistic missiles, however.  Q. There have been a lot of stories on "we won't if you don't." Do you have any reason why the Soviet Union is now beginning  SECRETARY MCNAMARA. No, I can't explain their actions.  AUDITING OF VIETNAM CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS   Q. Sir, there have been comments in Congress, notably by the Morse subcommittee, that there has been insufficient financial surveillance over some of the Defense construction contracts in Vietnam. Could you comment?  SECRETARY MCNAMARA. We have an auditing system at work. It has been at work since the construction started. The audits on the whole have been comprehensive. I think they have shown, as you might expect, that in the rush of putting in place the tremendous infrastructure that we have--wharves, ports, depots, air bases-there has been some waste, but, on the whole, I am pleased with the performance of our civilian contractors and our military construction battalions.  I think that the program is .properly controlled.  VIETNAM COSTS   Q. Mr. Secretary, how much of the $58.5 billion do you attribute directly to Vietnam?  SECRETARY MCNAMARA. I have nothing more to add on the cost of the military operation in Vietnam than what the President has said previously. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Johnson's ninety-first news conference was held in his office in the Federal Building at Austin, Texas, at 2:54 p.m. on Tuesday, December 6, 1966.  On December 16, 1966, the White House made public the text of a press conference held by Henry Cabot Lodge, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Vietnam, following his report to the President on the Vietnam conflict. The complete text is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents . 
