 First, I want to wish all of you a very Merry Christmas and a Prosperous and Happy New Year.  And I want to say to you that I think the vast majority of you have been as kind to me as I deserve--[laughter]--and I appreciate it most highly.  I have a couple of announcements to make.   I have asked Mr. Lilienthal to remain over until the 15th of February to wind up a few things that are now pending before the Commission.  And I am going to make Mr. Charles Murphy the successor to Clark Clifford. That's all the announcements.  \. There hasn't been any trouble that I know of. I am just not ready to make the appointment. \. I haven't decided on his successor. \. Gray--Copeland Gray.  \. No. Nobody has asked me anything about that.  \. Are you right sure about that? I would like to call the roll for you. \. I think you will find that the South is still running the Government, if you go by appointments.  \. You look over the roll call, and you will see. \. Yes, a dozen of them here.   \. About the 1st of February.  \. There isn't a word of truth in it. \. There isn't a word of truth in it, that's all I can say.  \. No comment on that.  \. Well, I think it is in existence now.  \. I do not. General Eisenhower and I are on the friendliest of terms, and always have been. I told you in 1948--when they were passing around all those remarks--that there wasn't anything to them, and none of you believed me, but they happened to be the facts.  \. Why certainly I could-certainly I could. \. I think I do. \. I think I do. \. Yes, he said so; and that is as far as I care to go. I think his word is good, and it has always been with me. \. I wouldn't be surprised about that. They have been trying to, ever since he got out of the Army.  \. I can't answer that question because I don't know.  \. I would suggest that you ask that question of the legal adviser to Mr. Foley, as I told you to do down in Key West.  \. That's right.  Q--the coal query, do you think the 3-day week in the coal mines puts it outside of the emergency?  THE PRESIDENT. No, I can't answer that question, because I don't know anything about what the answer is. If I find that there is an emergency, I will take the necessary action.  \. That is true--that is true. We are opposed to aggression against any country, no matter where situated.  \. Of course--of course, I am interested in it. I think it is an outrageous thing. Of course I am interested in it. \. He has not. The Attorney General answered that statement this morning, and the Attorney General's statement stands. 1   1 On December 21 Attorney General J. Howard McGrath announced that he had ordered the Federal Bureau of Investigation to determine whether Federal law was violated in the attempted bombing of the headquarters of the United Auto Workers, CIO, in Detroit on December 20. A box containing 39 sticks of dynamite had been discovered in the building.  \. Not at all--not at all. That has always been our policy. \. That--I can't answer that question, because that is not a free country. It's a part of Nationalist China, and we still recognize Nationalist China as the government of China.  \. I can't answer that. I will let you know all about that in the Budget Message. \. Yes. The first message will be the Message on the State of the Union. I hope the second message will be the Economic Report Message, and the third message will be the Budget Message. In that order. \. No. I can't set the dates until I have had a chance to have a conversation with the leaders of the House and the Senate. Then I will set the dates. \. I think maybe you had better wait and see the message. That's the best way to find out. \. You will find that out when the messages come out.  \. He has been invited, and I think he has accepted. Sometime in April, I think, he comes.  \. We were not. \. We were not. It had no effect on our defense allocations.  \. Yes, I am. \. I will give you an answer to that in the Economic Message. That is thoroughly covered.  \. I didn't read that. I don't know what they were talking about. 2   2  See the report "National Security and Our Individual Freedom," a statement on national policy by the Research and Policy Committee of the Committee for Economic Development .  \. I haven't had a chance to read it yet. I haven't had it but half an hour. I have been signing documents and meeting customers, and I haven't had a chance to read it. \. Very good.  \. The Cabinet session was devoted to the usual routine matters that come before the Cabinet members. There was discussion on the Message on the State of the Union. \. No. I will give you that in the message. \. Thank you.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4:02 p.m. on Thursday, December 1949. 
