 Please be seated.   Have you all recovered from your trip? 1   1  On July 2 the President had participated in the dedication of the Norfork and Bull Shoals dams in northern Arkansas . \. Tony 2  said there was too much going on.  2  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. \. I have got a couple of statements I want to read to you. They will be mimeographed and available over at the house. They won't be here. Mr. Short: 3  Not immediately.  THE PRESIDENT. Not immediately.  3  Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President.   "I understand that a good many of the steel companies are ready to settle with the union on all the issues.  "I also understand that these companies are being prevented from settling because pressure is being put on them by other steel companies.  "This appears to me to be a conspiracy against the public interest and not a labor dispute. In my opinion, it does not call for the use of the national emergency provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act.  "It calls for honest collective bargaining between the individual companies and the union. Also, those companies now in agreement with the union should consummate the agreements and begin producing steel for the welfare of this country."  Now, just to save you a lot of time and thought, that's all the questions I am going to answer on the steel situation. \. Well, I have got another thing here that you will be interested in. And as I say, both of these things will be mimeographed for you when you get back over to the house.   "I have sent up to Congress today a report on this country's activities in the United Nations during the last year. 4   4  See Item 196.  "As I said in my letter of transmittal, I believe the United Nations is the mainstay of our work to build a peaceful and decent world. I think the United Nations is vital to our future as a free nation. I am sure that the great majority of the people of the United States, regardless of political party, support the United Nations." Now this is the important part.   "I have asked Mrs. Roosevelt to talk about the United Nations at the Democratic National Convention, and she has kindly consented to do so. I made this request because Mrs. Roosevelt has rendered a great service to her country in her work in the United Nations, and because I want everyone to appreciate clearly what the United Nations means to us." Now I will try to answer questions. \. The statements speak for themselves, and if you will read the message that I sent to the Congress, that will answer your question. \. You have read those partisan attacks. It came out in your paper, some of them did. \. No, no. The letter speaks for itself, and it means just what it says. There is no hidden meaning in it at all. \. No, I don't--no, I don't. The National Chairman will set that date.  \. I haven't seen it, so of course I can't comment on it. When it comes to me, why then I will make my comment. 5   5  For the President's statement upon signing the "fair-trade laws" bill, see Item 204.  \. That is news to me. I think Governor McMath has made a good Governor, and my statement stands for just what it is worth and just what I said--no hedging on it at all.  6  See Item 195 .  \. Yes, Eddie. 7  \. All right, Eddie.  7  Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post. \. It is a document that is not for publication at the present time. 8  It has been--the committee which is headed by Senator Hennings has had access to it.  8  See also Item 221 . \. There are other considerations.  \. I have no comment.  \. Now, you are asking a hypothetical question. There are a lot of people that feel the same way the people in Arkansas do, and I am glad they do. If everybody was happy and cracking his heels together because I got out of the way, I would feel very sad about it.   \. That is news to me. That's another speculative proposition.  \. We are looking into that situation, and I hope another one like it will never come up. In fact, if I can prevent it, it won't.  9  Professor Owen Lattimore of Johns Hopkins University.  \. It hasn't come to me yet. I will sign it when it does. 10   10  For the President's statement upon signing a bill approving the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, See Item 198.  \. Your interpretation is as good as mine. I have no comment on it. \. Thank you very much. \. No, I have no comment. \. I have said no as plain as I can, and I shall keep right on saying that I am not a candidate.  11  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. \. I said I did not intend to try to get the nomination, and I did not intend to accept it if they gave it to me. \. If I had wanted to run for the Senate for Missouri, I would have filed at the proper time.  \. It was classified in the first place by the Federal Trade Commission itself, for national security reasons, but there are other reasons why it should be classified at this time. \. No. \. I have no further comment on it at all.  \. Shoot. \. Why, if Mrs. Truman is willing, she is coming down here. She was up to see Margaret off today. 12  We may go up on the "hill," but I don't think we will, because she has to stay close to a telephone on account of her mother's condition.  12  Mrs. Truman accompanied her daughter to New York harbor where Margaret boarded the liner United States for a six-week tour of England, Scandinavia, and Austria. \. Shangri-La. 13  \. I don't think we will, because she has to stay where she can get in immediate touch with the family at home.  13  The Presidential retreat in the Catoctin Mountains of Maryland.  \. No comment.  \. I am not running the Republican Convention, and I am just as glad as I can be that I am not a Republican.  \. It usually is, of course. If history tends to repeat itself in that line. \. I don't characterize it. It is none of my business.  \. I will have a vote in the convention. I will express my opinion when I cast that vote. \. That is correct. I have an alternate there who will carry out my wishes. \. Yes, you can talk to him all you want to. He is a free man. \. When my vote is cast, of course there will be a preference. The Missouri delegation is not one of these that goes to the convention with a yoke on. They are free agents. We don't work under the unit rule. \. After the nominations are made. \. Yes. \. Yes. \. If he asks my advice, which he undoubtedly will, I will make a suggestion to him.  \. It is not under a unit rule. Never works under the unit rule. \. I am not saying right now, because I don't want him disturbed.  \. He told me that he had been elected as an alternate to the convention. There will be an alternate for every delegate--I don't know whether he is my alternate or not. \. Did he? Then that is true then.  \. No, He will cast a vote. \. I would, if I were you. \. Well, I think so. I think you know now. \. His name is Tom Gavin from Kansas City. \. Not at all. None whatever. \. He is a free agent. I haven't any strings on him except that he happens to be a friend of mine--political friend.  \. On, no.  14  See Item 194. \. No, no. I think I made that perfectly clear, yesterday, that the people are best served by the party that is now in power, and I shall continue to preach that until the first Tuesday in November.  \. It looks more like a Democratic victory now, and the further we go it will look more like that all the time, and you won't be in the dark as much as you were in 1948. I think you will come to the same conclusion I do, as events unfold.  15  See Item 129. \. Well, the Democrats are always doing the right thing.  As I stated, I think, in the ADA speech, or it may have been the speech on the 29th of March, the Republicans usually help us out but we have to help ourselves a little, which we will proceed to do.  Reporter: Mr. President, we have got to go for more paper. Thank you.  Note: President Truman's three hundred and tenth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, July 3, 1952. 
