 Please be seated. I have no special announcements to make this morning, but I will try, so far as I can, to answer questions.  \. It has not come to my attention as yet.  \. I am very sorry that the purported answer to the Bell report has been released. As I told you last week, we were trying desperately to work out a practical approach to implementing the Bell report. And we can't do it in the newspapers, I am sorry to say. As soon as it is expedient, I will be glad to let you have the Bell report, but I can't do it now.  1 On October 25 the Office of Public Information in Malacanan Palace, President Quirino's official residence, made public a statement credited to an unnamed Philippine commentator commenting adversely on the Bell Mission's findings. On October 27 President Quirino repudiated the statement and expressed his regrets to the U.S. Ambassador. See also Items 180 and 238 .  \. No. The Gray report is not ready yet. It has not been presented to me.  2 See Item 282.  \. There has been some discussion between one or two of the leaders-the Vice President particularly, and myself-on the advisability of calling them back, at least a week or 10 days before the date they set, because it only gives them about 2 weeks of actual working time if they come back here on the 27th. I haven't come to a conclusion yet as to whether to call them back. I intend to consult with the congressional leaders and get their opinions on the subject, before a decision is reached. Just a matter of having a little more working time, that's all. They have quite a bit to do. \. The call will be issued when I make the decision, whether it is before or after the election.  \. Well, I don't know whether they can or not. There are other things that are just as important as the rent control law. The statehood for Alaska and Hawaii are vitally important, and then the excess profits tax is exceedingly important. I have a whole list of things that they will want to look into, and I will give you that list if I do decide to call them back. \. I haven't gone into any details on that. I don't think I can answer that question intelligently.  \. I haven't gone into it, but I think it is a good idea.  \. I wonder where he got his information? I believe he must have gotten that from Gabrielson. 3  He didn't get it from me.   3 Guy G. Gabrielson, Chairman of the Republican National Committee.  \. I don't know why. \. It just isn't true. \. It's just not true. \. Of course he did. He had to make the order. I gave the order to him and he gave the order to the men to drop the bomb. How do you suppose you transact business militarily?   \. It is not pigeonholed. I will continue to press it. It is logical, practical, and should be done. \. Not at all.  \. No comment. I have no comment.  \. No, I don't know anything to tell you, so I can't tell you anything. \. No further information on the subject at all.  \. Sure. \. My understanding is that the Korean divisions will occupy the Korean border on the Korean side. \. No. That is my understanding. \. It's the whole northern frontier of Korea.  \. That is so far as I know. The one that was publicly reported. 4   That's correct.  4 For the statement by the President announcing the first atomic explosion in the Soviet Union, see the 1949 volume, this series, Item 216.  \. No, we do not expect it. \. He wanted to know if we anticipate trouble in Western Europe this coming winter, and I said we do not expect it.    THE PRESIDENT. Well? Well? You are running dry?   \. Well, to tell you the honest truth, I have been urged by the National Chairman--as he should--in an endeavor to do what I can to elect a Democratic ticket, to make some political speeches. I have not yet made up my mind to do it. Should I make up my mind to make one or two, I will give you plenty of notice so that you can pack your bags and do whatever is necessary. \. What is it?\. No. No. I didn't mean to imply that. I have had under consideration seriously making just one, and possibly make that from here, but I haven't even made up my mind. What is it?  \. I will be in Independence, casting my vote. \. Well, you know, you fellows always want some excuse to go somewhere.  \. I know you will pack your bags and go to Kansas City, because Barney Allis 5  always feeds you.  5 Proprietor of the Muehlebach Hotel in Kansas City, Mo. \. I will be back immediately--I will be back immediately. The family can't go. They are going to vote absentee. But I will go out there. I promised to go out there and accept for the city of Independence one of the Liberty Bells which a little village in France gave to the city of Independence. 6  I will do that on the 6th and then return home on the 7th. You will have to get up early, if you want to see me. I shall vote and leave there.  6  See Item 281  \. I don't think so.  \. I don't think there is a chance, because I can't leave here with Congress in session. Congress will be in session in November, at least we know on the 27th, and will be in constant session until just time to adjourn for Christmas, and I will have to be here for all that time. I am sorry to say we won't go to Key West, I don't think, this year. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fortythird news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, October 26, 1950. 
