 I have no special announcements for you today, but I will try to answer questions.  \. I am not.  \. I am not. We can't give a man a recess appointment when he is rejected by the Senate. Didn't you know that? \. I don't remember, if it was. Not since I have been in the Senate. \. I don't think it is necessary, Tony. 1  You had plenty of columns' written on it.   1 Anthony H. Leviero of the New York Times. \. Hey--wait a minute-take your time.  \. Well, they didn't get the last question. He asked me if I had any further comment to make on the political nature of the Olds appointment, and I said I had none to make. \. What did you say now, Smitty?  2   2  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. \. I think it was a bad thing. \. Not at present. \. I think the best thing you could do is to read the record. Why don't you read the speeches that were made, and then you can get all the reasons. \. The reason you can' t hear is because our big rug had to be taken to the cleaners. Somebody in this conference had spilled ink all over it and we couldn't get it out. That's the reason you can't hear. I will do the best I can. \. Not the same. Not the same. The best way to find out about the situation is to read the record. Just read the Congressional Record for the day of the nonconfirmation and you will get all the facts. \. I think you had better read the record.  \. I hope I will be able to name them before Congress adjourns. \. I am trying to get ready on New York. \. I am trying to get ready on the New York judgeships. Somebody wanted to know when I was going to name the six Federal judgeships.  I said that I would like to get ready on it before Congress adjourns. The gentleman wanted to know if that goes for New York, and I said I am doing the best I can. \. The District of Columbia was the first question.  \. I am in no position to say when the Congress will adjourn. That is their privilege. When they come to the end of the business that they feel that they can transact, I am sure they will pass a resolution to adjourn.  \. I would rather not comment on that at this time.  3 See "Hearings Before the Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives, on the National Defense Program--Unification and Strategy" . The hearings were held in Washington from October 6-21, 1949. \. Sure.  \. Of course I do. I defined it in the last budget.  \. It is up to the Commander in Chief and the civilian Secretaries, on the advice of the Chiefs of Staff.  \. That's right. \. My best advice to you is to turn to the fifth, sixth, and seventh chapters of the Gospel according to St. Matthew in the King James translation, and read it very carefully, and you will find out without any comment from me.  \. Fifth, sixth, and seventh chapters of the Gospel according to St. Matthew, the King James version. Read those three chapters--won't take you but 20 minutes. \. The Sermon on the Mount--talking about the Sermon on the Mount and my political philosophy. I advised him to read the Sermon on the Mount. \. I do. I am in complete agreement with it.  \. I don't know what you are talking about. I don't think ethics has anything to do with communism. I know the Communists have no ethics.  \. I think very highly of him. He made a very profound impression on me. I think he is a fine gentleman. I think he is earnestly trying to be a good public servant.  \. I beg your pardon ? \. I am going there on the 24th to lay the cornerstone of the United Nations building. \. I am going to lay the cornerstone of the United Nations building. It will not be a political speech.  \. I have been considering it. \. I have been considering that one, too. \. Boston.  \. No, I do not,  \. Your guess is as good as mine. \. Well, I say your guess is as good as mine. We will have to wait until the time comes.  \. I have no comment to make on the pending bill. I will comment on it when it comes up to me for signature.  \. No, I think that speaks for itself. That's the reason I handed it to you for your information. Of course, there will be a great many more public laws added to that, before the Congress adjourns.  4  A detailed summary of the status of legislation relating to recommendations of the President, 81st Congress, 1st session, was released by the White House on October 10.  I want you to understand that the reason I have to raise my voice is because those gentlemen can't hear, and not because I am exasperated.   \. I am not anticipating it. \. Yes, they say that we are in such a good fix up there, it won't be necessary.   \. I can't comment on that. I haven't read Admiral Denfeld's testimony, and I couldn't comment on it if I had read Admiral Denfeld's testimony. 5   5 Appearing before the House Armed Services Committee earlier in the day, Adm. Louis E. Denfeld, Chief of Naval Operations, asserted that Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson was proceeding against "the spirit and concept" of the unification law.  \. I told the Senators who called on me that I had asked for 48 air groups. That is what I wanted. \. No comment.  6 Adm. Arthur W. Radford appeared before the House Armed Services Committee on October 7. In his statement he contended that the B-36 had been "a billion-dollar blunder," and that a war fought by the "atomic blitz" technique of saturation bombing would be "morally reprehensible" to the American people.  Rear Adm. Ralph A. Ofstie testified before the Committee on October 11. In his statement he said that "strategic air warfare, as practiced in the past and as proposed for the future, is militarily unsound and of limited effect, is morally wrong, and is decidedly harmful to the stability of a post-war world." \. No comment. \. Well now, I have never been on the receiving end of one of those bombs, so I couldn't comment very well intelligently. \. I couldn't.  \. Shoot. \. That is a matter that will have to be investigated, if it becomes necessary. I can't answer that question offhand.  \. I don't think they ever had an intelligent investigation, so there was no sense continuing it.  \. He is coming in to pay an official call on me, as every visiting head of a state does when he goes to leave the town. \. No specific subject.  \. I have no comment on it. I don't know what it contains. It will come up to me before long, and then I will comment on it, if it is necessary.  7  See Item 233.  \. Shoot. \. It is my opinion that the conference committee can write an acceptable bill. It may not be exactly what anybody wants, but that is the reason they have the conference.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and first news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, October 13, 1949. 
