 Please be seated. I have no special announcements to make this morning.  \. I feel all right.  What makes you ask that question? \. No, I always feel good. I am always physically fit. If anybody doesn't believe it, come up and take a try.   \. I am very happy that they saw fit to do that. We have been negotiating that loan ever since I made my visit to Mexico and the President of Mexico made his visit here. The President of Mexico was exceedingly pleased and happy over the arrangement, and so am I.  \. Just as quickly as it has been properly analyzed and I have the papers before me. It is in the course of being analyzed now. It will be signed, I hope, in the next few days. 1    1  The President signed the Defense Production Act of 1950 on September 8, 1950 . \. No, it won't be today. You can be assured of that. \. That is the intention. \. There will be no military dictator.   \. You mean the Mundt-Nixon bill as revised by Senator McCarran? That is, the Mundt-Nixon bill as revised by Senator McCarran and made a little worse. I would do the same thing to it that I would do to the Mundt-Nixon bill. 2 2  See Item 254. \. I can't answer that question because that bill has not been passed through either House of Congress, and it is not before me for consideration. I am not in a position to comment on legislation until it is a little further along than that bill is. That bill is an improvement over the Mundt-Nixon bill. \. I made a statement on that last year, when Mr. Dewey and Mr. Stassen had their argument out in Oregon about the same time, that I wouldn't sign any such bill. \. All right--all right.  \. No, the report is not ready yet. 3    3 Daniel W. Bell was named Chief of the Economic Survey Mission to the Philippines on June 29, 1950 .  The report of the Mission was made public by the White House on October 28, 1950. The report, dated October 9, 1950, is printed as Department of State Publication 4010, Far Eastern Series 38 .  \. I know that, Joe. 4  The bill has not been completely analyzed. A great deal of work has been done in the various agencies of the Government with regard to the things that I think will be necessary to be done. I can't give you a definite outline of the situation until the bill is completely analyzed and before me for consideration, .at which time I will make it perfectly plain to you. And, incidentally, I intend to make a speech on it Saturday night, on all four radio hookups,  5  and I will give you advance sheets of it before it goes on the air.  4 Joseph A. Fox of the Washington Star.  5 See Item 243. \. Yes.  \. Is that about the Science Foundation? \. I really don't understand the thing. There is a Science Foundation, which I have been trying to get an appropriation to implement, in which a board of scientists has been appointed by the President with an executive director, and it is their business, I think, to try and arrange for the education of young men for a scientific career. I think that the President makes the appointments, and the board itself will pass on the students and how they are to be educated. \. That is a matter that will have to be worked out on a commonsense basis, just like all the rest of the things we are faced with, and we will try to do it that way.  \. That is the first time I have heard of it.  6 W. Smart Symington, Chairman of the National Security Resources Board.  \. Yes.  7 John J. McCloy, U.S. High Commissioner for Germany. \. That is a matter that is up for consideration before the foreign ministers and the defense ministers of the Allied Powers. It is not proper for me to discuss it before they have their meeting.  \. Mr. Chapman is up before the committee now, and then when he gets through, that attack will be exploded into little bits, just like former attacks of the same kind have been. 8    8 On September 7 Secretary of the Interior Oscar Chapman appeared before the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs in answer to charges made on the floor of the Senate by Senator Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas questioning his past loyalty. Senator Schoeppel's remarks are printed in the Congressional Record .  \. I am not running for office in Ohio, so I won't comment.   \. No, I have no comment on that. That is being handled by the United Nations. It was a United Nations plane that did the shooting down.  \. That is not under consideration at the present time. I will probably answer that question Saturday night. \. No.  \. I cannot comment on it now. General Bradley makes a report to me every morning. There has been no material change in our frontline in Korea during the last 10 days. \. Yes.  \. Well now, I have to analyze the bill and find out just exactly what it provides before I can answer that question. I will answer it categorically when I have all the information before me.  \. There are certain points in the line that have been crashed, but those points are being pushed back to their former grounds, and I think that will happen before the week is out. At least, that is my opinion. I am not a desk strategist and don't pretend to be one. I leave that to the military men.  \. The statement clarified it entirely, and I have no further comment to make on it. 9  9 See Item 234. 10 See Item 235.  \. The official reports are always a few days behind on the casualties, because they try to notify the nearest of kin before they have the lists published. The total casualties are reported to me every day. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.  \. Yes!  10 See item 235. Note: President Truman's two hundred and thirtyeighth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, September 7, 1950. 
