 I have some announcements to make first.    "In accordance with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, I am today appointing a General Advisory Committee to advise the Atomic Energy Commission on 'scientific and technical matters relating to materials, production, and research and development.' "The appointees are--"  You will be handed a sheet which will give you the backgrounds on all these people.  --Dr. Conant; DuBridge; Fermi; Oppenheimer; Rabi; Rowe; Seaborg; Smith; and Hood Worthington.  "I am advised by the Atomic Energy Commission that it will establish other committees to advise it on the problems and the applications of atomic energy in specific fields, including, among others, biology and medicine, geology and mining, and the social sciences."   And I have got another statement here for you. All these things will be handed to you as you go out, in mimeographed form.  : "I have today appointed John R. Steelman as Assistant to the President, to continue to aid me in coordinating Federal agency programs and policies.  "Mr. Steelman, assisted by a small staff, will also continue to serve as liaison between the executive agencies and the President's Commission on Higher Education, as well as chairman of the President's Scientific Research Board which was established recently by Executive order to report to the President on current scientific research programs of the Federal Government and steps needed to coordinate and strengthen these programs.  "I have signed an Executive order, 1  effective today, creating a new agency which will be known as the Office of Temporary Controls. The order consolidates the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion, and the Office of Price Administration, the Civilian Production Administration, and the Office of Economic Stabilization into the new agency. I have appointed General Philip B. Fleming to head the new agency. In addition, he will continue as Federal Works Administrator.  1 Executive Order 9809 "Providing for the Disposition of Certain War Agencies" .  "The Office of Temporary Controls will be responsible for carrying out the continuing responsibilities of the OPA and the CPA, and certain activities of the OWMR. The priorities powers under which CPA operates will expire March 31 except for building materials, unless extended by Congress. The principal OPA programs which continue by law are sugar rationing and rent control. The functionings of the Office of Economic Stabilization already have been largely terminated as the result of decontrol of prices and wages and the elimination of most items from rationing.  "The consolidation will result in economies in operation, and in a more rapid liquidation of personnel, property, records, etc., which are no longer needed for current programs.  "Although the reconversion program has not been completed, the actions taken by this order in reducing the number of agencies involved in reconversion matters and the recent removal of price and wage controls materially lessen the need for continuing a separate OWMR. The statute under which OWMR operates expires June 30, 1947. Until that date most residual functions will be carried on by the Office of Temporary Controls established by the order. The OWMR Advisory Board will be continued for some time. Its members have expressed to me the desire to wind up their work and be relieved of their duties at the earliest practicable date.   "The order also terminates the Wage Stabilization Board as of February 24, 1947; and the Economic Stabilization Board--" \. The order terminates as of today. This order is effective as of today. This affects these agencies today.   "and the Economic Stabilization Board is also terminated. It reestablishes the Office of Government Reports and transfers to it the functions of the Government Information Service of the Bureau of the Budget, and the functions of the Advertising and Motion Picture Divisions of the OWMR.  "The order transfers the functions of the Office of Contract Settlement to the Treasury Department and disposes of certain other wartime functions, including certain functions of the Wage Stabilization Board which are transferred to the Department of Labor."   I have appointed Mr. Frank Creedon of Massachusetts to be the Housing Expediter. Mr. Creedon was in charge of the construction of the Manhattan Project, and has had wide experience in this field.   I have appointed Raymond M. Foley of Michigan as Administrator of the National Housing Agency. Mr. Foley is now Commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration, and he will remain in that position also. Biographical information will be available on all these people as you go out.  I have called a meeting to discuss housing, in the Office of the President, at 3 o'clock this afternoon.  \. I hope we could--\. Sugar?\. No, no. Rice should be included in that.  \. Mr. Steelman will be Assistant to the President, to carry on the duties practically as he has been carrying them on; and whatever is necessary to be done on reconversion, he will continue to do. \. OWMR is abolished.\. Absorbed in all these other agencies which I have named. \. That's right. Carries on the duties he has been carrying on as Assistant to the President.  \. No. But I can furnish you that as soon as the details have been worked out. The order was just promulgated today, and as soon as we have that information, why it will be available.  \. Not that I know of. Never brought to me. It may be under consideration by OPA. I don't know.  \. Well now, I will give you a complete outline. My views are--should be well known--will be, after I have this conference this afternoon. I will furnish you with them. \. Yes.\. Well, here's--those who will be here--it's on the record: General Fleming, George Allen, and John D. Goodloe, Frank Kelsey of the Home Loan Guarantee Division, Veterans Administration, General Littlejohn, and Raymond Foley, and Frank R. Creedon, and Mr. Steelman and myself.  \. All I know about it is what I have seen in the paper. I haven't read the report. I have no comment on it.  \. As fast as it possibly can be done. I have been carrying out that program as rapidly as I possibly can ever since the 16th day of August 1945. I can't give you an estimate. \. Terminal date is set by the Congress. \. I think so. \. Yes. The terminal date on most of these agencies, as soon as the work is done, will be terminated just as we have been terminating them right along; but whenever it is decided that the war is over, all things terminate 6 months after that date. \. That's true--that's true. That's the reason it is so difficult to get the thing lined up in order, because you use different words in different bills to describe the same thing.  \. It is progressing, and had it not been for these strikes which we have had, I think we would have been able to issue that order now; but under the conditions we can't do it immediately. \. They haven't discussed it with me. I will tell you what I think when I write the message to Congress.  \. Nobody has any right to quote me until I get ready to put out the message to Congress. You will know all about it.  \. No, as soon as he is selected, I will inform you right away.  \. Yes. \. Yes.  \. They automatically end 6 months after that declaration is made.  \. I don't want to discuss that. I will put that in the message.   \. No, no. There will be three messages to the Congress this time. The Message on the State of the Union, the Economic Advisory Message--Economic Council Message, and the Message on the Budget. Three separate documents. \. I beg your pardon? \. Oh, no. They will go up at separate times. You will have plenty of time to digest each one of them separately.  \. Well now, who is to define that? Who is to say whether it's radical ? I shall send up a message on what I believe to be necessary for the welfare of the United States, and that will be my viewpoint. They can have theirs. I don't care how they analyze it.  \. The John L. Lewis matter is in the courts, and as soon as the courts have acted then I will tell you. \. Some of it--or it will be in the State of the Union Message. \. I have no hopes. I don't think anyone should endeavor to influence the courts. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's ninety-first news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, December 12, 1946. 
