 I have no special announcements to make today. I will try my best to answer questions, if they are not too complicated.  \. No. That is Virginia's business. I am glad to hear it, however. \. I know nothing about such a brief. I haven't seen it and I can't comment on it.  \. I have no such power as that. \. Those are war powers.\. I said I have no such powers. Those were war powers. \. I don't think so. I hope not. \. No. Never. \. No, I know of nothing of the kind. I am not asking for any such power.  \. I can't comment on that at the present time because I haven't all the information on the subject.  \. I am expecting to hear as soon as they are ready to report. \. I can't tell when it will be, except they will report as soon as they are ready. 1    1 See Item 35.  \. No, I haven't.  \. I don't understand that very well. I read with a lot of interest that Republican platform, but I think the Republicans' record speaks better for itself than any platform they can write.  \. We have done everything we possibly could. Apparently they aren't going to stay in business.  \. I hadn't thought about it. \. He wanted to know if I planned to appoint a committee to study radio and television allocations. We have got a board for that purpose. I do not see any use for me to.  \. I don't know. He is going to see me after you fellows get through. He has been trying to resign for quite a while, and I have been able to persuade him to stay, up to date. \. No. That is what he is coming to tell me this afternoon.  2 2 See Item 81.  \. The relationship would be simply a coordination of the whole New England power program, that's all. It would not interfere with the International Commission at all. In fact, I think it would be an asset to the International Commission.  \. I can give you the answer to that question better when I have all the information in my hands, which I haven't, as yet.  \. Did you read Mr. Acheson's statement lately? 3  I will advise you to read it. That will answer your question.  3 Mr. Acheson's statement on the Soviet nuclear explosion and U.S. atomic policy is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .  \. I am not considering anybody in particular, right at the present time. When I find the right man, I will let you know about it right away. \. I am not considering Mr. Luckman for any job whatever. He is doing the job that he is doing right now: selling tickets to the Democratic dinner. 4    4 Charles E. Luckman was chairman of the 1950 National Jefferson-Jackson Day Committee. \. He has done excellent. He has done an excellent job of it. \. I said he has done an excellent job in the job he is in. Every time I have asked him to do anything for me, he has done an excellent job.  \. Did you read Secretary Acheson's statement yesterday? 5\. I would advise you to read it  5 For Secretary Acheson's statement at his press conference on February 8, see the Department of State Bulletin . \. --because that covers the ground. The Secretary and I are in complete agreement. \. He discussed the matter with me. He spoke for the State Department, which is supposed to represent my policy on foreign policy.  \. We discussed that. 6 Elpidio Quirino of the Republic of the Philippines. President Quirino had been in the United States for medical treatment. \. I have it under consideration.  \. Yes, I am very much in approval of what he had to say. We discussed it for quite a while before he made the statement. And if you will go back and read a little history, you will find that that program has been a continuing one ever since we first made the request through the United Nations to control atomic energy and armaments of all kinds.  Our position hasn't changed a bit. It has been just exactly that all along. We have been reiterating it. I have said it over and over and over, I think a hundred times, right here in this conference, and there isn't any use getting all steamed up on the subject, because we are continuing all the time every effort we possibly can to create a peaceful situation in the world. And if we could get just one little bit of cooperation from the Soviet Government, we could get the job done.  \. Well \. No. I am having the water commission 7  make a complete survey of the water situation in the United States. You know, New York is just as much interested in the subject as California is, and so is Baltimore, and so is Houston, Tex., and a half dozen other cities that I could name to you. That is the reason I appointed this water commission.  7 See Item I.  The water situation in the Southwest is in a terrible situation. Arizona and California are both drying up. We have got to find some sort of a manner in which to meet that situation. And that is the reason I have appointed that water commission to make a survey. I hope we can solve it, but it is a very delicate and a very important problem. I hope we will get it solved so that it will be all right for those States and places that I have named.  \. Our position has never changed. The Baruch position is just the same now as it was the day it was made. 8\. No reason to reconsider it. It is just as good today as it ever was. \. Not the slightest. Not the slightest. In fact, it ought to be more useful now than it was then.  We thought we were giving away, then, something good. We were on an even keel then, apparently. \. I can't answer what Russia feels. I know how they have acted. I can only go on their actions. I can't tell you how Russia feels. Nobody knows. Except by their acts in the United Nations--and they have voted "no" every time. I don't think we have ever exercised the veto power. \. There is no reason for any change. We are attempting to get international control of atomic energy and trying our best to get a peace in the world that will be good for everybody. That's all we are after. That's all we have ever wanted. That is the fundamental basis of our foreign policy. \. It is in the same category. \. No, they cannot. \. No, I am not. You needn't put words of that kind into my mouth. I will answer your questions--\. All right, proceed. You don't put any words in my mouth. \. Public discussion helps every situation. \. As atomic control. They are. We are for both. \. They go together. They are both in the same resolution in the United Nations, if you will read it. They do go together. \. I would like to have that atomic thing first, of course, but they are both in the same resolution in the United Nations. \. Doesn't mean inflexible. If we can get an atomic energy settlement, we won't have any trouble with the other. \. I have no comment on that.  9 Dr. Klaus Fuchs, German-born, naturalized British scientist convicted of having transmitted secret atomic information to the Soviet Union. \. He wanted to know if this English scientist's case had any effect on that, and I said I can't comment on that. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President Note: President Truman's two hundred and sixteenth news conference was held in his office at theWhite House at 4p.m. on Thursday, February 9,1950. 
