 Please be seated.   I have a communication here from one of your members that is right interesting. It says: "From day to day I show up neat, Even in the worst of heat. I'm not the one to shed my coat, And open my shirt, or bare my throat. I yield to none in my scorn of pain, Smiling at sun and laughing at rain. I appeal for other sons of toil Who pant, perspire, and even boil. A coatless conference would do a lot To ease the distress of those who get hot."    Now, I think I told you once before that anybody who wants to take his coat off could do it.  \. The boy with the pink tie. 1  1 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. \. I may make you put them back on, if you do.   I understand that in the conference today there are 13 correspondents from 7 NATO countries. We are happy to have you with us, and hope you will have a chance to see the things that interest you in this country, and that you will leave here with a good impression.   Also, I have a statement that you are interested in, Pete. 2  2 Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. You will get a mimeographed copy of it after this is over.   "I have examined into the facts concerning William Boyle's alleged relationship to RFC loans to the American Lithofold Corporation of St. Louis, Mo. The facts I have obtained indicate that Mr. Boyle had nothing to do with the approval of those loans by the RFC.  "I think it would be highly improper for the chairman of a national political committee to use his contacts with Government officials for his own private gain. I would not condone such conduct for a moment.  "So far as Mr. Boyle is concerned, I understand that he gave up his private law practice in order to make sure that there would be no improper mingling of his private interests and his responsibilities as Chairman of the Democratic National Committee. That was the proper thing for him to do."  I have the utmost confidence in Mr. Boyle. And I believe the statements that he made to me. And I believe also that the investigations which I made in the RFC cover the matter fully. \. Yes. \. Yes, I'm satisfied. \. Oh sure.  \. Go ahead and ask it. \. Yes--yes. \.  "The Government of the Soviet Union"--we have copies of this for you outside, too--"has replied to the resolution of the United States Congress declaring the friendship of our people for the Soviet peoples and our deep desire to achieve world peace. The Soviet Government withheld this resolution from the people of the Soviet Union for more than a month--although of course some of them heard it over the Voice of America. Now the Soviet Government has finally released the resolution through the Soviet newspapers and over the Soviet radio.  "I am glad they did this, as millions of Soviet citizens can now hear and read for themselves the resolution of friendship enacted by the representatives of the American people.  "Mr. Shvernik's reply, naturally, was released in our country as soon as it was received, since in a free country there is no reason or desire to withhold such information from the people. I noted with special interest the statement in Mr. Shvernik's letter that the Soviet Government places no barriers in the path of the intercourse of the Soviet people with the people of other countries.  "This has not been true in the past--witness the rigid prohibitions laid down by the Soviet Government against people from the Soviet Union traveling abroad and people from other countries traveling in the Soviet Union, the rigid restrictions imposed by the Soviet Government on the reading of books and magazines and newspapers from outside of the Soviet Union by the Soviet people, the large-scale and costly effort by the Soviet Government to 'jam' the radio broadcasts of the Voice of America and other free radios, the prevention by the Soviet Government of Russian wives of citizens of other countries from leaving the Soviet Union, and many other barriers preventing travel and communication between the Soviet Union and other countries.  "I will be particularly interested to see whether the Soviet Government means what it says, and now intends to change these policies."  4  Now I will try to answer questions.  4 See Items 147, 197. \. Yes. \. Yes. Yes, I intend to answer it. I hope the correspondence may bring forth some concrete results. At least, that is what I am hoping for. \. Well, you had better wait until I get it prepared, then you won't have to guess at it.  \. Yes.\. I would like very much to have that tension relaxed. I would like very much to have complete and permanent world peace. It is not unattainable.  \. I know nothing about it. I have sent my appointments to the Senate. It is not customary for me to back up when I have decided to put somebody in office. 5  5 See Item 165[8].  \. I am not.  \. Purely verbal report, in regard to organizing the moral forces of the world. It was encouraging. \. Yes.  \. Yes, I do. \. To find out what he saw.  \. No. I think he has the assignment he wants. He is Governor of New York.   \. That's right. \. It certainly does. \. Yes. I am just as fond of General Eisenhower as I can be. I think he is one of the great men produced by World War II, and I think I have shown that, by giving him the most important job that is available for his ability. \. I didn't say that. \. Well, you will have to translate that any way you can. I am glad-as I say, I am very fond of General Eisenhower. I don't think he is a candidate for president on the Democratic ticket, and I couldn't very well help him to be a candidate on the Republican ticket, because I don't think that would do him any good.  Anyway, I have another candidate on the Republican ticket.   6 William H. Lawrence of the New York Times. \. It would be. \. I said it would be. \. I will tell you that later. I am not ready to make an announcement on that yet. Anyway, you fellows wouldn't have any fun. \. If I were to tell you exactly what I was going to do, it would ruin the press conferences.   \. I hadn't heard anything about that. Mr. Harriman has a right important job where he is. If he can be of any help in Egypt, I wouldn't mind his going there, but I have no information on the subject.  7 Special Assistant to the President. See Item 155.  \. I will see him when he gets back, of course.  \. I am making a survey of the situation now. I am trying to find the remedy for this situation at West Point without killing the patient, and as soon as I have something definite to talk about, why I will tell you what I am trying to do.  8 On August 3 Frank Pace, Jr., Secretary of the Army, announced that 90 cadets of the United States Military Academy at West Point were to be expelled for cheating during examinations. Many of them were on the football team.  \. Sure. \. I found the facts to be just what Boyle stated them, that he had no connection whatever with the loan or with any other loan in RFC, so far as his position with them as an attorney is concerned. \. Yes, he received fees from the company. He had a retainer fee for his firm. Perfectly legitimate. Quit it immediately, as soon as he became vice chairman of the national committee. \. What is a retainer fee usually for ? \. A retainer fee is one that takes the fellow--puts the fellow on the payroll of a company, and then he gets extra pay for the legal business that he actually does for them, that is my understanding. Every law firm in the country has that sort of setup. \. That is correct. \. That's right. \. No, I was not. He severed his partnership with Siskind. They wound up their affairs just like judges do when they go on the bench.  9  Former law partner of William M. Boyle, Jr. \. I don't know whether Siskind is getting anything. I am not interested in that. None of my business.  \. I told you awhile ago what I am trying to do. \. I will answer you when I get that done.  \. Well, I think that was answered by Mr. Johnston, wasn't it?  10\. I think--  10 On August 8 at a meeting of the Defense Mobilization Board, Eric Johnston, Administrator of the Economic Stabilization Agency, told the group that living costs were likely to advance 5 to 8 percent in the coming year.  On the same day the Interstate Commerce Commission had authorized a 9 percent freight price rise in the eastern portion of the United States and 6 percent in the other sections.  The Economic Stabilization Agency had opposed the increases as inflationary, contending that they would result in higher retail prices for goods shipped by rail. \. I think he made a statement on the subject, and I am in agreement with the subject. That was cleared with me.  \. No. No. The second in command over there is acting.  \. I don't know any MacArthur who is in the Senate. \. I have no comment to make on it at all.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right. Note: President Truman's two hundred and seventy-fourth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, August 9, 1951. 
