 Please be seated.   The Secretary of the Treasury called me just before I left the office over there, and said he wanted me to be sure to remind you that there is going to be a defense bond drive this fall. He announced it in Rochester, N.Y., and it will begin Labor Day, September 3d--there will be a national broadcast of the opening program, in which I will in all probability take part. 1  1 Item 213.  Defense is everybody's job, and buying defense bonds is a highly effective way to help do the job. Volunteering for work in the bond drive is another way of paying for the defense program. The Treasury will see that the time and the talent of every volunteer worker is put to use.  And I guess we will call on all of you to work on it.  Anybody that has any questions now, I will try to answer them.  \. The information given to the Committee was confidential information, and I think it goes without saying that that sort of information is not for release. The Defense Department, I think, made a statement on the subject.  \. I will answer that question when the operation takes place.  \. Everything that is possible is being done, just as was done in the case of Vogeler, 3  and as has been done in the case of the Archbishop. 4  And the same procedure is being followed. We are doing everything we can.  2  See Item 145 .  3  Robert A. Vogeler, an American citizen, was arrested in Hungary on November 18, 1949, and was sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment on charges of espionage and sabotage. He was released on April 28, 1951, after long negotiation between the U.S. and Hungarian Governments.  4  In June 1951, Archbishop Josef Grosz, successor to the imprisoned Cardinal Mindszenty as head of the Roman Catholic Church in Hungary, was tried with eight other Hungarian citizens on charges of conspiracy and violation of currency regulations. Attempts were made at his trial to implicate employees of the American Legation at Budapest. \. No, no.  \. Yes. Whenever I get ready to make the appointments, I will let you know about it.   5  Item 132 .  \. No, there was not.  6  The President designated General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower as Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, on December 18, 1950 .  \. Well, I will give you plenty of notice on that. I will make that announcement in my own time. Did you have something?  \. No comment.  7 Luther W. Youngdahl, Republican Governor of Minnesota, nominated by the President to become a Federal judge in the district court of the District of Columbia.  \. Well, Mr. Harriman is leaving tomorrow for Iran, and I hope that his mission will be successful. I am going to talk with him about it in the morning. 8  He is with the Secretary of State now.  8  See Item 155.  \. I shall not do that. Mr. Niles in all probability will come back to his job--I hope.  9  David K. Niles resigned as Administrative Assistant to the President, effective May 31, 1951.  \. Yes. \. Have done it. \. No. Just done today.   \. Well now, that would be pure speculation. I don't know. I never discussed the matter with him at all. The best way to find out about that is to ask the General himself. I am sure he would give you an answer.  \. No, no--I didn't put the word ever in there. I said I had taken him at his word when he told me in January of 1948 that he would not run in 1948 for President. That is as far as I went on that. \. Well now, I can't answer questions about that controls bill until it gets to me. It is not legislation as yet. It is still being made up. When it comes to me, then I will answer your question. \. I can answer your question when I see what sort of bill they give me. What was your question?  \. I had no discussion with him on the subject at all.  \. I wish you would ask that question again ?  10  On July 8 U.N. representatives met with Communist officers at Kaesong, on the 38th parallel, to arrange for discussions of a truce in Korea. The discussions began on July 10. \. No. I have no comment on that.  \. I didn't know about it. What did it say ?  11 The 2d congress of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. \. I haven't seen it. No such cable has reached me.  Mr. Short. 12  Mr. President, it was received and referred to Dr. Steelman. 13    THE PRESIDENT. Joe says it was received and referred to Dr. Steelman. I haven't seen it. 14  12 Joseph Short, Secretary to the President. 13 John R. Steelman, The Assistant to the President. 14 For the President's statement on the mass deportations in Hungary, see Item 173.  \. Well, that is a matter that is up to the Defense Department, and we have been discussing it; and as soon as it is necessary for such a board to be in operation, why it will be appointed. \. There was--the only thing that was done with the Pacific Security Pact--that was discussed by the Secretary of State and myself, and was approved by me for negotiation. We hope it will be signed in San Francisco at the same time the Japanese treaty is signed. 15  15 A draft tripartite security treaty was initialed by the United States, Australia, and New Zealand on July 12. The ANZUS Treaty was signed September 1, 1951, ratified by the President April 15, 1952, and entered into force April 29, 1952.  \. Yes. Of course he will. You can't be a negotiator unless you can talk to both sides. \. He is my Special Representative for the purpose of trying to get this thing settled, and I hope he is successful at it. He is very good at that business. \. It is possible. If that is necessary, he will, of course.  \. Well, sir--if you will--[laughter interrupting]--that' s a mighty good way for you to start out at a press conference!  \. Oh yes, I am in better physical condition than I have ever been in my life. I always have been in good physical condition. I don't know that there's any way to compare it. I am still young enough to make a good race--foot race, I mean.  \. No, no. I have taken you boys on walks with me on several occasions, and most of them came in with their tongues hanging out. I haven't been bothered with you since.   \. That is correct. \. Well now, that would require comment on a bill that is not yet--that has not yet been written, and I don't think it is well to comment on legislation when it is in the formative stage. If you will just be a little patient and wait until the bill gets to me, I will make all the comment on it necessary, on whether it is good or bad. \. Well, that is-- \. No. I think I have made all the appeals that it is necessary for me to make. \. I have done everything I know to do, to inform the people of the United States just what they are up against, and what they may be up against if there is no control. \. It is a matter that the Congress will have to work on, they will have to take the responsibility.  Mr. Short. You didn't ask any radio audience to write in to Congress, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. Joe says I never asked any radio audience to write in to Congress. I don't remember that I had--although I might be mistaken. I don't think I ever asked anybody to write to his Congressman. I don't believe in that. I think that is propaganda. If a man is wholeheartedly inspired to write his Congressman on something in which he is interested, that's all right. I never did--when I was in the Senate, I never paid the slightest attention to propaganda messages, and I used to get them by the thousands. \. A what?  16 On July 9 Representative Louis C. Rabaut of Michigan, addressing the House, said, "This Eighty second Congress stands at the threshold of immortality. We have an opportunity that few Congresses have to insure our place in history. If we deny to the Government the authority to roll back prices and maintain firm economic controls, we are sure to be remembered. We will be remembered by the American people as 'the horse-meat Congress'--the Congress that put the old gray mare on the family dinner table" . \. Well, I can't answer that until I get the controls bill.  \. No. I think the treaty speaks for itself. I approved it. I approved that draft--I approved that draft that the State Department published. 17    I hope the Japanese treaty can be promptly signed, I might say that.  17  The draft peace treaty and two declarations by Japan are printed in the Department of State Bulletin .  \. Well now, I will have to answer that question when the announcement that goes with it is made, and I am not ready to make it yet. \. I said I would have to answer that question when the announcement is made that goes with it, and I wasn't ready to make that announcement yet. \. No--I said if. If is the word. \. You can use when if you want to, I don't care--doesn't make any difference. When I get ready to make the announcement, that is what it will amount to, anyway, one way or the other--if or when. \. That's all I have, unless somebody has another question he wants to put. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and seventieth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, July 12, 1951. 
