 Please be seated.  I have no special announcements to make, but I understand that there are quite a number of questions that you would like to ask, and I will listen. I am ready.  \. Well! Yes, Eddie? 1  1 Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post.  \. Well, Eddie, let's use a different verb on that. Let's say continue drastic action. Whenever it has been necessary to take drastic action, it has been taken by the President whenever it is necessary, and I will continue to do just that.  2 Frank E. McKinney, chairman of the Democratic National Committee. On November 1, the day after Mr. McKinney became chairman, the White House released the following letter from Mr. McKinney to the President:  "When you asked me to become chairman of the Democratic National Committee, you told me of your firm purpose that the Federal service be maintained at the highest standards of integrity and ability and with spotless honor. My every effort will be directed toward that goal. I will seek its accomplishment in every way possible.  "Toward that end I recommend that Collectors of Internal Revenue be brought under Civil Service and subjected to the selection standards of that Service. It is your objective, I know, that the public have every confidence in the integrity and ability of our Federal tax administration. I believe the adoption of this recommendation will further that objective."  If you will study the history of the situation, you will find that there has never been one of those things that you refer to that has come to the President on which he has not taken drastic action. That is what he proposes to continue to do.  What are you looking at me like that for? Do you want to write a sob sister piece about it? I don't need any sob sister pieces! \. What do you mean ? \. If I make up my mind on that, I will let you know, Pete. 3   3 Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. It's not a committee like anybody's. If there is one, it is going to be mine. It's going to be an original one.  3a  Owen Josephus Roberts and Atlee Pomerene were appointed by President Coolidge in February 1924 as special counsels for the United States to prosecute the Teapot Dome oil fraud case. \. Yes sir, I had a Truman committee once that worked very well. \. That includes Mr. Hoover. \. Mr. Hoover always does his duty as he has always done it as the chief investigator for the Government. \. You mean that he would be Attorney General?\. No. That is unfounded.  5 Attorney General J. Howard McGrath.  \. Well, I don't think there's a single member of the Cabinet that some Congressman hasn't demanded to be fired. They haven't been very successful at that sort of an approach. \. Sure. \. I hadn't heard any of those reports. They haven't reached the White House yet. \. No. \. If you had asked it that way in the first place, I would have answered it that way. \. It's all right, we have a little fun as we go along.   THE PRESIDENT. Well, well, well--are you stymied ?  \. Mr. McKinney made the statement in the White House, and he has to be consistent.  \. I cannot answer that question.  \. I certainly don't. Mr. McKinney suits me down to the ground. I don't put people in places or ask them to serve in places and then pull the rug from under them the first time anything happens that the newspapers don't like. It pleases me when they don't like it, because I think it's right.  \. Oh yes, there are plenty of them. I have dispensed with several Cabinet officers in times past. The collector in Boston was fired before anybody began to look into his situation, except the Treasury Department. The collector of revenue in St. Louis was dispensed with long before anything was looked into by any committee. The collector in San Francisco was fired before any committee went into it, and a grand jury right now in California has just indicted him. The necessary action in all these things has been taken by the executive branch of the Government whenever it was necessary.  You remember all the ballyhoo about Communists in Government. The Loyalty Board which I set up took care of that situation before anybody outside the executive branch of the Government took any action. The Communists who have been tried and convicted, were tried and convicted by the Attorney General, not by any outside agency.  The Government has been carried on just as it should be, by the President of the United States who is the Chief Executive of the Nation, and that is the way it will continue to be carried on.  \. He was asked to resign long before that. It was very difficult to get his resignation. \. I didn't want to fire him--yes, long before. \. That's right. \. No, no, that's a mistake.  6 James P. Finnegan, former collector, 1st District of Missouri, Bureau of Internal Revenue. \. I backed Mr. Snyder up in his request in the first place. \. Well, what would you do under the circumstances? \. Of course, I know what the Post-Dispatch would do to any Democrat, they would cut his head off every time they had a chance. \. I am not so sure. I remember a certain mayor of St. Louis which you loved very much.  \. I didn't say that, and you can't put words in my mouth. \. I didn't say that at all. I said that the executive branch of the Government would continue to do its duty, and whatever is necessary to be done will be done. And if you gentlemen will just have a little patience, you will find out something a little later that will be for your welfare and benefit. \. Well, I will have to take time on these things. You know I can't be pushed into doing anything-- \. -- by anybody.  \. Well, who wouldn't feel that way? A man who has taken an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, and who doesn't do it would make any executive angry. Even your paper ought to get angry at something like that.  \. What?  7 See Item 298 . \. It applies to all these people who have been fired. \. I haven't read Mr. McGrath's testimony.  \. Mr. McGrath has made no motion to me that he expects to resign, and I haven't asked him to resign.  \. Well, you are easily puzzled. \. I say you are easily puzzled. Always speculating about something that you don't know anything about, but go ahead. \. I don't think it is right for any Government employee in a responsible position to have outside interests. And I expect to do something about that before we get through with this situation. I think it's unethical for people in key positions to be outside practicing law, or taking fees that have nothing to do with their position as a Government employee. If they want to do that, they ought to quit and open a law office and go at it.  8 Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President.  \. Some of them may, yes. \. No, I will discuss that in the Message on the State of the Union.  \. I think it--it's a two-way street.  9 Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney of Wyoming. \. What was that? \. That's right.  \. Whenever that situation comes about, I always inform you in plenty of time so you can get it in the next day's paper, or that afternoon's paper. I have nothing to say on the subject.   Mr. Short: Mr. President, I think you misunderstood Mr. Riggs  10  over there. He said "later this week," and you just said "later."  THE PRESIDENT. Joe says I didn't say later in the week, I said later. But then you can leave it at later in the week.   10 Robert L. Riggs of the Louisville Courier-Journal. \. No sir, don't get too specific.   \. No. \. I don't expect anything until it happens. I do not want to be quoted on anything in regard to Korea. Now, this situation is exceedingly delicate and dangerous, and it is your situation as well as mine, and anything that is done over here that embarrasses General Ridgway injures our bargaining position and may get some boys shot that otherwise wouldn't be shot. So keep still about Korea and the truce. \. Yes, it's off the record-it's off the record. I just want you to use the same judgment that I have to use as a citizen of the United States for the protection of our forces in Korea. It is up to you just as well as it is to me, to see that those boys don't get shot in the back. And the Korean truce matter is not a public document to be discussed. And I am emphatic about that, because it is a dangerous situation--a very dangerous situation. And this is all off the record. \. Starting with Miss Montgomery's  11  question.  11 Ruth S. Montgomery of the New York Daily News. \. Yes.  You don't know what an injury it can be to those people who are trying to negotiate something, and to have people back here stab them in the back. What is it ?  \. I expect to send that appointment down as soon as the Congress meets. Then it is up to the Congress to take whatever action is necessary. 12\. General Clark as Ambassador to the Vatican.  12  See Item 275 .  \. No, no. No, I didn't say that. He asked me would any legislation be necessary on some of these things, and I said they would be taken up in the State of the Union Message. That had no connection. \. No. No. \. It is in the formulation stage, and as soon as I have it ready I will inform you. \. That's right?\. That's right. \. That's right. \. Not necessarily. I don't want to confuse you, but they are two different things. We are talking about two different things. \. One is where it may be necessary to have legislation to meet the situation, and one is the direct action that the Executive himself may take. That will come sooner, of course, than the legislative action. \. I expect to take action as promptly as possible and get the situation cleaned up, and whatever action is necessary for the Chief Executive to take, why he will take; because there is nobody believes more than I do in dean government. That has been my record and my theory ever since I became a public officeholder. You can go all the way back to 1922 when I was first elected to public office, and you will find that has been the policy I have pursued until this date, and I expect to continue to pursue it. And wrongdoers have no house with me, no matter who they are or how big they are. \. Yes, if you like. I don't know whether he can or not, that was pretty fast.  Go ahead, Jack, and I'll correct you. \. That is a direct quote.  13 Jack Romagna, White House Official Reporter.  \. It is not customary for one of the three great branches of the Government to--in any way to reflect on either one of the other two, so I have no comment to make on that question.  \. I do not.  14 Paul R. Leach of the Chicago Daily News.  \. Yes, because it will all be cleaned up long before the campaign takes place. It will be past history, just like the Communists in Government and all the rest of these things have been. I have cleaned every one of them up, and this will be cleaned up just the same way. It's lack of issues that caused these things, because this would have been cleaned up, anyway, without all this ballyhoo.  \. Such action has been taken ever since I have been President, wherever it has been necessary. It is nothing unusual, or nothing new. Whenever it is necessary to make the Government clean by firing somebody that is doing wrong, I haven't hesitated to do it, no matter what his position is. \. Well, I don't think so. If you will look over the records, you will find the average number of people in the Internal Revenue Department who have been fired every year has been about the same right along. It hasn't been any greater now than it was then. It has been a little higher up in some places now than it has been in the past, but there isn't any more of it than there always has been. You have to be constantly on the watch for just such things all the time. \. Because every time one of these fellows goes wrong, he has the complete and hearty cooperation by some fellow on the outside who wants to profit by it, and he is just as guilty as the man. \. I want to have the situation completely developed, and show that the vast majority of the Government employees are honest people, trying to do their duty, and I want to see that they do not get smeared by the actions of a few people who are not the right sort in the first place. That's what I am trying to do, and I think the Government employees are entitled to just such treatment. \. It did not arise from congressional investigations, Pete.  15  That is just what I am telling you. Every one of those things was ferreted out and taken care of, and the congressional investigation came in after the fact and made the headline.  15 Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. Yes. Yes. We were on him quite awhile ago. I knew all about the situation, and was ready to fire him sometime back. \. Maybe so. I don't keep books for the Attorney General when he is Attorney General. I keep books for myself.  \. I don't know. How do you get people in banks that rob them sometimes ?   \. I have no comment. Mr. McKinney has made that perfectly clear himself.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and eighty-seventh news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, December 13, 1951. 
