 I have no special announcements to make today, so if you want to ask questions I will try to answer them.  \. That is my prerogative. I decided to make the change without anybody's request or influence.  1 Marriner S. Eccles, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System . The President had nominated Thomas B. McCabe as Chairman. \. The President has a right to do that if he wants to do that. \. That question I will not answer. \. The President, of course, hasn't the right to use his prerogative under the law, has he? \. It has been thoroughly explained by Mr. Eccles and Mr. Snyder, and several of the-- \. There will be no explanation.  \. Well, I can't tell you that. The meat situation is becoming very acute and requests have been made about the necessity for meat rationing by Members of the Congress. One of the Assistant Secretaries of Agriculture testified up there today, in answer to a question, that meat rationing undoubtedly would be imminent on account of the shortage of meat. The administration has not yet come to that conclusion. \. I didn't see the statement. I don't know what he said. \. He had testified--I was told that he had testified up there that meat rationing was imminent. It may be true. I say that may be done--as soon as I get all the facts. \. Yes, it is. Meat rationing has been considered ever since last November, when the request was made for certain powers in a standby capacity. \. Yes. \. Yes indeed. Price control must come first. No use having rationing if you don't have price control.   Are you finished already?   \. Wall, you know, General Eisenhower has the control of his own destiny, and if General Eisenhower thinks that was the best thing for General Eisenhower to do, I am for it.   \. Yes, he has been in here-we almost had to raise the doorjamb up. \. No. I have no comment. Anybody that wants to get a headline can attack the President and get it.  \. I have no comment. I know nothing about any such sanctions.  \. The matter was explicitly explained in the budget that, in order to get ready to put the Marshall plan into effect, it is necessary to make the--fill the pipeline, and that is what the 2 billion 3 is for. It is very clearly set out in the budget. And it is absolutely essential, if we are going to carry out the plan as it should be carried out. \. It would. The recovery program is what--we must have the recovery program, or there isn't any use starting it. \. I can't answer that. I can't answer that question because I don't know. \. It iS absolutely essential. The program must be taken on as a whole over a period long enough to assure recovery in Europe. And that means peace in the world, if we can get recovery in Europe. And the plan was carefully thought out. It was worked on by the 16 nations that are interested in the matter. It was worked on in the State Department. It was worked on in the White House, and in the Cabinet. And the plan that we finally sent up to the Congress is one which we think will accomplish the purpose. And I think I told you once before that in 1945, along in October, after the Japanese had surrendered in August, I made a rescission of appropriations of 55 billions of dollars, and made a further rescission of some $7 billion--and a half, I think--in January or February, immediately following. That was for a 6-month period for war. That appropriation for 1946 fiscal year--from June 30, 1945, to June 30, 1946--was 103 billions of dollars.  Now it does seem to me that we can afford, over a 4-year period, to risk 17 billions of dollars for peace, which is less than one fourth of the half-year that was made a rescission under war. It seems to me a very sane expenditure for peace. That is what we are after. And the recovery of Europe is essential before we can have peace.  I feel very strongly on the subject. I think the welfare of this country and the welfare of the world is at stake in this European recovery plan. I don't think I can be any stronger-- \. That is correct. That is absolutely correct. \. All or nothing. lust like throwing money down a rat hole unless we go through with the program and follow it to a logical conclusion. \. We expect to get the very best advice possible in the administration of the plan, and General Marshall is in favor of that, and so am I. And the administrative setup that I requested of the Congress is a sound one and is in line with what General Marshall wants. \. There is no difference between the Brookings plan and the one I sent the Congress, except in small details. \. So it's all right with me. \. That is not true. The Congress can make an authorization for contracts extending over a number of years. They do it all the time in reclamation and agriculture, and everything else. \. I will attend to that when the bill comes up to me. It may be possible to reach a conclusion on the matter of a continuing program. And a continuing program is what I want. I don't want just a relief program for 1 year. We can talk about the money when it gets to me. \. They can authorize the program, just as they authorize reclamation projects. \. No, I don't think that affects them at all \. I don't think that affects them at all. I want a continuing program so that I know we are going to get the job done. The estimates are that it will take $17 billion to do it. \. You can't commit more than one Congress on an appropriation, but you can commit the Congress on an authorization to carry out on a job. That is what I am after. \. Certainly. That is what I want. \. No, I think you had better not. They have been said by General Marshall, and I approve of what he said.  \. I am not commenting on personalities for that program yet, because it isn't in effect.  \. No, that applies to the continuing program, to the whole continuing program. \. The $17 billion program. To the 4-year program, let's put it that way. It may not be $17 billion, if Europe recovers faster than we think it will. They made a remarkable advance this year. Their products were increased by more than a billion dollars this year.  \. Sure. \. That's right. \. I think the President has a right to appoint the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board as the law requires, and appoint anybody he chooses. \. No, I would have no objection. They can investigate anything they choose. They can't investigate the President. \. No --  -- the only way a President can be investigated is by impeachment.  \. What was it? \. I have no comment, for I haven't seen Mr. Churchill's remarks. I saw the quotes in the paper, but I don't know exactly what Mr. Churchill said. \. I have no comment. \. Still in my mind. It ought to be here in Washington.   \. That's right. That's perfectly all right. That's what I want, a 4-year authorization to carry on the plan, and we will call appropriations from year to year as they come up. The Congress can't commit another Congress on an appropriation. They can commit one on an authorization. \. The 2 billion 3 should not come off. \. If I didn't think so, I wouldn't have put it in there. I asked for it in the first place.  \. Well, yes--and I think that won't be a point of difference when it is analyzed properly. If you will read one or two editorials which I have just been reading, you will find the analysis very good. One is in Bert Andrews' paper,  1  and the other is in Joe Fox's paper. 2  Giving him another plug!   Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  1  New York Herald Tribune.  2  Washington Evening Star. Note: President Truman's one hundred and thirty-fifth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, January 29, 1948. 
