 I have no special announcements to make this morning. I will try to answer questions, if I can.  \. The railroad strike has been brought about by a very small minority of the switchmen. It is an unjustified strike, and the men ought to go back to work at once. They had the views of a very able board, made up of the chief justice of the Supreme Court of Utah, the former chief justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana, and the professor of economics of California University. The Mediation Board suggested that they go back to work, and they should have gone back to work when the Mediation Board suggested. I hope it won't be necessary to take drastic action to force them back to work. 1    1 See Item 188. \. Well, Martin Hutchinson's case is pending before the Senate for confirmation, and I am still backing him. 2    2 On March 6, 1950, Martin A. Hutchinson of Virginia was nominated to be a member of the Federal Trade Commission. The Senate rejected the nomination on August 9, 1950.  \. I will make no such assurance. I am back of Mr. Pike, and he ought to be confirmed. He has been confirmed twice by the Senate, and this is a foolish procedure. 3    3 Sumner T. Pike held the position of Acting Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission from the time that the resignation of David E. Lilienthal became effective on February 15, 1950. Mr. Pike's 4-year term as a member of the Atomic Energy Commission had expired on June 30. He was subsequently confirmed by the United States Senate for another 4-year term on July 10, 1950. Gordon E. Dean was appointed Chairman of the Commission on July 11, 1950. \. It is not true, and it has been testified by the Defense Department that Sumner Pike has been always cooperative. If I had been intending to appoint Sumner Pike Chairman of the Commission, I would have done it a long time ago. But I will make no such assurances to the Senate that I won't appoint him.  \. That's correct. \. I didn't understand that question. Will you repeat it, please? \. Well, this strike is tieing up five mainline railroads, two of which are absolutely essential to the movement of the wheat crop and to the movement of cattle from the grass pastures to the feed lots in the Middle West, and it seems to me that that is reason enough for drastic action unless the strike is discontinued.  \. Yes, I am perfectly aware of it. It is purely political. \. Party 'politics. Republican Party politics, if you please.   \. No. This is purely a domestic proposition.  \. Does that need any explanation, Pete? 5 \. He votes with the Republicans much oftener than he does the Democrats, although he poses as a Democrat.  4 Senator Edwin C. Johnson of Colorado.  5 Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. Pete asked me about the Democrat \. No, no. The Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee. \. Yes, sure. I am not talking about Hutchinson. I am talking about the chairman of the committee. \. No, I was not in on the inside workings of the committee, because I wasn't present.   \. I am not in a position to comment this morning.  \. They should go back to work to carry out the objectives of the Railway Labor Act, which is also a patriotic duty, by the way.  \. There are a great many military experts in this country who know exactly what ought to be done, and that measure has not been discussed by the people who would have the authority to do it. \. No. I have the authority, but no plans in that direction. \. Not at the present time.  \. I have no dates in mind right at the present time. And I am very happy that the Defense Department is going to devote all their time to their job over there, instead of making speeches.   \. No, there will not be, and I can make no comment on that until we get the final results of the situation as it develops in Korea. But the appropriations here remain specific with regard to Korea.  \. I know nothing about it.  \. That report is always up to date. We work on it all the time. I can get it any minute I want.  6 W. Stuart Symington, Chairman, National Security Resources Board.  \. Of course I am. It will work out all right. \. Now that is a political matter of international purport, and I can't comment on it this morning.  7 The Chinese Nationalist Government on Formosa announced on June 29 that they were willing to send 30,000 combat soldiers to the aid of the South Korean forces, if that action was approved by Allied officials. \. I can't comment on it this morning.  Reporter: Thank you, sir. Note: President Truman's two hundred and thirtieth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, July 6, 1950. 
