 Ladies and gentlemen of the press, I have no particular announcements to make this morning, but I thought since we had to miss last week I had better let you in and you might have some questions on your mind.  \. I haven't analyzed the election returns. One thing I was happy to see, though, was the large turnout at the various elections. It shows the people are learning their responsibilities as citizens, and that their interest in free government rests in the ballot box. It was a big turnout in nearly all these elections. I haven't analyzed the situation for trends. Of course, I was very happy over the Kentucky election!  1   1  Gubernatorial election in which the Democratic candidate, Representative Earle C. Clements, defeated the Attorney General of Kentucky, Eldon S. Dummit. \. I think it will help those who like free government.  \. I have no reason to take any action, for no such thing has ever been put up to me. I think it is a very bad habit to get hold of fragments of preliminary reports which are likely to come up to the President, and then set up a strawman and knock him down. I have to pass on that thing if it ever comes to me. It never has yet.  \. Only what I saw in the paper. I haven't seen the report. \. I can't comment on it, because I am not well enough informed.  \. That report is made to me, and that report can be used as a basis for a part of the Message on the State of the Union, which of course in the long run will be sent to the Congress. \. I didn't say that. I said it could be used as a foundation for part of the message--some of it, maybe. I haven't read it carefully yet. \. I think it's a good report. I have already made that comment. \. That's right, but I hadn't read it even then.  \. I will take care of that situation when it comes up to me. \. I will let you know about that when I send down the Message on the State of the Union. \. No I am not. The special session is called for two specific purposes, which has been very clear up to date. As far as my message is concerned, it will be confined to those two specific things. \. The special session. It will be confined to the two things that I have already announced that the session is called for. \. No I can't. I will let you have that when I send the message down. I don't want to read that message to you here now, it wouldn't do the Congress any good.   \. Oh, we just discussed it incidentally. He said that the only way to get wheat to market would be to put a ceiling on the price of wheat, then the farmers would all turn it loose. That was his opinion, and he expressed it to me. \. He didn't tell me what price he had in view. \. He did not discuss prices with me. \. Oh yes, he said he had 600,000 bushels, and like every farmer he wanted to get as much for it as he could. I don't blame him for that. \. No, I do not. Mr. Luckman made a report to me just recently, and I think when you read that report  1  you will be very happy. I was very happy over the success that he has been having with this effort. He did a good job.  1  The "Interim Report to the President From the Citizens Food Committee" is dated October 31, 1947 .  \. Well, we have been working on a plan to get the matter before the country in as simple a manner as possible so that everybody can understand it. It has been a tremendous job to get that report ready. It required the meeting of the 16 nations in Europe. It required the Krug survey of our own resources. It required the Harriman survey, which has not yet reached me, but will tomorrow, I imagine. And it required the report of the Economic Advisers, and all those things have to be coordinated and put to work. It is a tremendous job. And we must be patient. We must not take a single report and say that that is the Marshall plan. When we get that worked out and coordinated, it will be sent up to Congress in the form of a message, and it will be explained specifically in all its ramifications as clearly as we can possibly explain it. \. Well, I hope--I have that under consideration. \. I meet with Secretary Marshall three times a week all the time, when he is here. We discuss all subjects in which he is interested and in which I am interested. \. Well, I will have to tell you more about that when we get together. Not in shape yet even to write the message on. Whenever we get all those things coordinated, when we get the message ready, I will send it to the Congress--as soon as I can get it ready. I don't know whether that will be to the regular session or the special session.  \. Not that I know of. He hasn't offered it to me.  \. They run side by side.  \. I hadn't thought about it. We have given that matter some consideration. Trying to find the proper man. Whenever we get him, I will announce him to you.  \. All I know about that is what I have seen in the paper. And I noticed this morning that it had been announced that he has no visa to come to this country. All I know is what I got out of the paper.  \. What's that? \. Tony, 1  that's a leading question, and I have no comment I   1  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. \. All right. \. Well, I don't think I have ever been here in the White House when I haven't been as busy as I could be. Even on the so-called vacations, I work just as hard as if I were sitting at this desk.  \. I haven't got a crystal ball.  You will have to talk to Congress about that. I want them to act on interim aid first. They will be told that very plainly in the message. As I say, I can't prophesy what the Congress will do. I am sure, though, that they will do the right thing.  \. I don't--I didn't understand the question ? \. I don't know. Were they approved the last time or not? I can't remember. \. Were they recess appointments ? We have that under consideration. Whenever we arrive at the proper conclusion on that, we will take action on it. \. That study hasn't been completed yet.  1  Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President.  \. NO. I have no comment.  \. Well, I never get a chance to see a movie unless they bring one to the White House, and about the only thing I see are news reels. I try to go when I am not in them.   \. No, I didn't say that. I said whenever we are ready we would submit it. It takes a lot of time to get it ready. \. That is a separate proposition entirely, and the committees will commence meeting on this thing on the 10th, and they will begin hearings on the interim aid program on the 10th of November; and they will ask me--be at liberty to ask any questions they want, and we will try to give them all the information we have. \. I think they are equally important. I want to make it perfectly plain that I think they are equally important. One depends on the other, unless--no use making appropriations of money for a hundred million bushels of wheat if it won't buy more than 25 million bushels.  \. No comment. \. No comment. I think that will take care of itself.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and twenty-sixth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, November 6, 1947. 
