  I have only one announcement to make. I am accepting the resignation of Mr. Kenney, the Under Secretary of the Navy. 1  He will serve until his successor is appointed and confirmed. I have no one under consideration for his successor. I will answer that question before it is asked.   1 The President's letter accepting the resignation of W. John Kenney as Under Secretary of the Navy, dated May 5, 1949, was released by the White House on May 6. Mr. Kenney's letter of resignation was released with the President's reply. \. Yes. \. No, he has not. He has been endeavoring to get his resignation accepted ever since the 13th of January. I am ready for questions.  \. Yes, I shall reappoint John Russell Young. \. Tomorrow.  \. The reorganization bill is the one that has to be passed before we can do anything with those things--with that Hoover recommendation, except those that require legislation; and legislation has been asked, in those instances. \. That is the reorganization bill ? \. Well, I can't force the Senate to pass it. I have asked the "Big Four"  2  every Monday morning how soon they are going to pass the reorganization bill, and they always say right away; but if they don't pass it right away we won't have any business to do, I can tell you that, because that-you have just 60 days for the Congress to act when the reorganization plan goes up. With less than 60 days now, and Congress hasn't time to act, why of course it doesn't apply and you have to do it all over again next year.  2 Alben Barkley, President of the Senate, Scott Lucas, Senate Majority Leader, Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House, and John W. McCormack, House Majority Leader.  \. Well, of course I am happy that there is a chance to take up where we left off, over 10 months ago.  \. That is quite clear.  3  See Item 90. \. So that the distribution of the products themselves is on a fair basis, so that every part and segment of the population get their fair share at a price they can afford to pay. That doesn't make any difference about the prices. That means that the situation should be balanced so that farm prices, labor prices, consumer prices are equal. \. That's what I am talking about when I say the consumer. \. A fair distribution is what we want. That is what we are after. That is what we have been working for ever since I have been in the Senate. That is what parity means. \. Yes, you can't tell one from another. \. That's correct. \. That's right. We are working right now for a raise in pay for the schoolteacher.  \. I have no comment on that. I don't know on what General Clay bases his statement, so I can't comment on it. \. I have said all I had to say on the subject.  \. Yes I do.  4  In a series of votes on May 3 and May 4 the House of Representatives blocked the bill replacing the Taft-Hartley Act introduced by Representative John Lesinski and favored by the administration. \. We have another chance to start over and get the sort of bill we want. \. We have a chance to start over with the House on the labor bill and may get a bill that we can accept.  \. I think it's working.  \. It wasn't submitted to me for approval.  5 One of the substitutes for the Lesinski bill offered in the House of Representatives on May 3. \. He wanted to know if I approved the Sims substitute. I said it wasn't submitted to me for approval.  \. There certainly will be, I am sure, because I was told by the "Big Four" that the President of Brazil would be invited to attend a joint session. I know there will be one.  I wasn't going to announce that, because that's a matter that should be announced from down there at the other end of the Avenue.  \. He will be appointed--I don't know--you will have to look it up. I can't answer that.  \. On what basis would that be? It wouldn't be necessary, anyway, if the foreign ministers reach an agreement. That is all that's necessary.  6 The sixth session of the Council of Foreign Ministers held in Paris from May 23 through June 20, 1949. The announced purpose of the meeting was to hold discussions on the situation with regard to Germany.  \. I have been asked to consider Dwight Morrow for an ambassadorship \. Yes. I have him under consideration. \. I can't tell you. I don't know.  \. There has not. The negotiations have been carried on by Dr. Jessup and Mr. Malik.  \. No. \. No. No. I will give you plenty of notice so that you can pack your trunk.  \. You needed one last fall.  \. Well, I can't tell you that. lt's a little too early.  \. No, they have not, Miss May. 7  You see, this administration runs for 4 years.  7 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. I will do whatever is necessary to get it repealed. I don't know how long I will have to wait to get it. Everybody knows where I stand on the labor bill, however. My position hasn't changed. \. I want the Democrats in the Congress to carry out the promises made in the Democratic platform--that's all I am asking--just as I am trying to carry out mine.  \. I don't know that there is any disagreement on any subject between me and Louis Johnson. That's the first I have heard about it.  \. Yes--  8 Senator Elbert Thomas had introduced in the Senate a bill to replace the Taft-Hartley Act which was identical with that introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative John Lesinski. \. I think that is a good bill. The Congress has the right to amend the bill, or work on it in any way they see fit. I don't care, because I never comment on any bill until it's up here for me to sign. Then I never hesitate to comment on it one way or the other.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT, You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and eightyfirst news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 5, 1949. 
