 Please be seated.  I have no announcements to make this morning. I will try to answer questions.  \. No.  1 For the President's statement of September 23, 1949, announcing the first atomic explosion in the U.S.S.R., see 1949 volume, this series, Item 216.  \. He had some business that had to be wound up in which he was familiar with all the evidence, and he is waiting until that business is wound up, before he leaves. \. No, it has not. I don't think it has any connection whatever.  2  On April 15, 1950, the President vetoed H.R. 1758, a bill to amend the Natural Gas Act of 1938, because the bill would limit the authority of the Federal Power Commission to regulate sales of natural gas to interstate pipe line companies . In the Phillips Petroleum Co. case, the Federal Power Commission decided that Phillips was not a "natural gas company" within the meaning of the Natural Gas Act, and was therefore not subject to FPC jurisdiction. \. Yes, I am aware of the decision. \. He wanted to know if I was aware of the decision of the Federal Power Commission. I told him, yes, I am aware of it. The Federal Power Commission had all the evidence and decided the thing on the evidence, as far as I know. That is what it is for.  \. I haven't seen it. 3  3 The State Department release, dated July 6, 1951, is published in the Department of State Bulletin, volume 25, p. 95. On August 1, the President signed Proclamation 2935 , dealing with trade restrictions on furs from the U.S.S.R. and Communist China.  \. Yes, Duke?  4   \. Well, I will take care of that when we get around to it, Duke. I haven't yet heard from the Governor of Missouri that he needs any of it, and I can't operate until I do hear. As soon as I get the thing lined up, why you will be informed exactly how it is going to be handled.  4  Duke Shoop of the Kansas City Star.  5  On July 18 the President approved H.J. Res. 292 , providing $25 million for disaster relief. The funds were to be used to help in the recovery of the flood-stricken Middle West. \. It will be under my control, you will be sure of that. Why, if it is necessary--we will have to wait and see what developments are. We don't know yet what is required. That is what that survey was for the other day.  \. That's right. \. That was--I probably quoted a conversation I had with Ike when we were discussing his appointment as commander in chief of the NATO setup. I haven't talked politics with Ike since 1949, so I don't know what his attitude is now. I notice he answered your question as to which party he belonged.   6  See 1949 volume, this series, Item 269 . \. Well, I can't--I can't speak for him, because I haven't discussed the matter with him at all. If ever I discuss the matter with him and he tells me what he is going to do, then I will rely on it, because his word is good. \. I couldn't hear you? \. Well, we will cross that river when we get to it. \. I will answer that question when Ike asks me for permission.  \. To some extent.  7  On July 16, Adm. Forrest P. Sherman, Chief of Naval Operations, met with Generalissimo Francisco Franco, Spanish Chief of State, to discuss Spain's possible role in the defense of Western Europe. Secretary of State Dean Acheson's statement regarding the conversation, made at his press conference on July 18, was published in the Department of State Bulletin . \. Well, we haven't decided yet. These are preliminary conversations, to find out just what the situation is with regard to our necessity, and what Spain is willing to do. I think Mr. Acheson covered the thing very completely yesterday. \. It is the result of the advice from the Department of Defense.  \. The key to the Bastille belonged to George Washington. That is private property, and the Government has nothing to do with it.  \. I haven't been officially notified about it, and besides, the bar association doesn't make my appointments. I think I told you that once before.  8 Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois opposed two nominations by the President to district judgeships in that State, citing the constitutional theory requiring the advice and consent of the Senate for judicial appointments, and stating that his own recommendations had been ignored and that he had not been consulted about the President's nominations. Senator Douglas thereupon asked the Chicago Bar Association to conduct an advisory poll regarding his recommendations and the President's. Polls were also taken by the Illinois Bar Association and the Chicago Sun-Times. On October 9, the Senate rejected the President's nominations . \. Well, I told the press conference, let's put it that way.  The Constitution still provides that I make the appointments.  \. No, I can make no comment on that.  \. That is one of the silliest things I ever heard. And I don't think that it helps the welfare of this Nation to have people, who are supposed to be responsible for its welfare, making silly statements like that.  9 secretary of Defense George C. Marshall.  \. No. I have not heard from Mr. Harriman direct. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  10 W. Averell Harriman, the President's representative in Iran to discuss the Anglo-Iranian oil dispute . Note: President Truman's two hundred and seventy-first news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, July 19, 1951. 
