 I have got an announcement or two to make this morning.   Maj. Gen. Philip Fleming, Federal Works Administrator, will be appointed to the Maritime Commission; and when he is confirmed he will be made Chairman of the Maritime Commission. And he goes on that Commission as an independent, with no political affiliations.  Jess Larson, Administrator of the War Assets Administration, will be appointed as Federal Works Administrator, to succeed General Fleming.  Rear Adm. Paul Luther Mather-- \. Too fast? \. Rear Adm. Paul Luther-Luker--L-u-k-e-r it is--Mailer, Assistant Administrator of the War Assets Administration, will be appointed Administrator of the War Assets Administration.  And Mr. Richard Erwin Dougherty of New York, and Douglas William Orr of Connecticut, members of our--these two men were members of our advisory committee on the safety of the White House--will be appointed as the members of the Commission to Superintend the Construction of the White House. They will work in conjunction with two Senators appointed by the Vice President, and two Representatives appointed by the Speaker.  These two gentlemen are--one of them is an outstanding engineer, and the other one is an outstanding architect. \. Reconstruction of the White House-- \. His name is Paul L-u-k-e-r Mather--M-a-t-h-e-r. \. He is to be head of War Assets Administration.  Then, I am sending down a thousand postmasters. They will be submitted to the Senate today. And there will be about that many next week.   There has been some conversation about the Navy's activity in Shanghai. I have seen headlines in several papers in which it said the Navy had run out on the civilians in Shanghai.  That is absolutely without foundation in fact. The Navy has done an excellent job in Chinese waters from one end of China to the other. They have made arrangements for the evacuation of all American citizens in China who want to be evacuated. The President Wilson left Shanghai yesterday-that is the 28th of April in the Eastern Hemisphere--with vacancies which could have been filled by anyone who wanted to leave.  There are two other President Line steamers, the President Van Buren and President Pierce available in Shanghai today, and they will probably leave today for any Americans who want to leave. And the Navy is still able to evacuate any people and to protect American citizens, if it becomes necessary, in Shanghai or any other port in China.  That's all, gentlemen. If you have any questions, I will try to answer them. \. Yes. Yes, there are. \. I don't know that it has been violated, has it? I haven't been officially notified that it has. Not from the Ambassador. I saw it in the paper, but I have had no complaint from the Ambassador.  \. Calder 1  has been under consideration for the appointment as Secretary of War. He is still under consideration.  1 Curtis E. Calder, chairman of the board of the Electric Bond and Share Company. \. I didn't make the announcement. \. There are several people under consideration. \. No. \. Yes, Jonathan Daniels is one of those. \. No, I cannot.  \. Some of them are, the ones that were held up last year. Most of them are new. There are expirations all the time in post offices--and run about 4,000 a year, the appointments do.  \. If they come in for that purpose, I will discuss it with them.  \. I--what I know is contained in the statement issued by the State Department Yesterday. 2  I think it is encouraging.  2  The statement on the negotiations between Philip C. Jessup, American Ambassador-at-Large, and Jacob A. Malik, Soviet Ambassador to the United Nations, on the subject of the lifting of the Berlin blockade, was released on April 26, 1949. It is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .  \. I don't think there is any foundation in fact for either one of those-what is it you call those things?--the columnists do, when they prognosticate?  \. I didn't read Secretary Sullivan's letter to the Secretary for Defense. I only read the letter he wrote to me, and I replied to that.  \. I don't think it is necessary. It has been reiterated time and again, and was clearly stated in the message of 1947; and that condition has not changed, so far as I know.  \. Yes, that has already been approved, and will go down just as soon as the State Department is ready to send it down. I believe the statement was covered very clearly by Acheson before the Foreign Relations Committee. That was shown me, and I approve of what Mr. Acheson said, and-- \. --nothing has to be said about a leak this time. \. Yes.  \. Yes, I have. Yes, I have. He came in here especially to talk to me about it. \. No--I don't know--it was 3 or 4 days ago that I did. I don't remember exactly. \. I can't answer that question. You had better ask him. I hope he will. He is a very capable man.  \. Yes. If I didn't think so, we wouldn't continue the conversations.  \. No, I am not.  \. Well now, I will attend to that when it comes up. You are asking me a hypothetical question, and I am not admitting that the Embassy has been violated.  \. I don't think it is necessary, except to say that Democrats are those people who support the Democratic platform, which is the law of the Democratic Party, and should support that platform after they are elected just the same as they did beforehand in making promises. That is what I am doing. \. Yes.  \. It has been under consideration for some time.  \. I certainly will.  \. The administration bills have been favorably reported before both Committees of the House and the Senate, and that is the administration measure now as it is on the calendar. 3   3 See the more extended comment on the various bills to replace the Taft-Hartley Act in the news conference of May 5, Item 93.  \. I didn't know about it. \. They wanted to know if I had any comment on the ambushing and killing of the wife of the former President of the Philippines. That's the first I had heard about it. I didn't know about it. I think it is an awful thing, if it has happened.  \. Let's wait and see how the thing works out, then the question will answer itself as we go along.  Reporter: Thank you, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and eightieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, April 28, 1949. 
