 Thank you all for coming over. And let me just say that I this morning, after receiving the news, called Ross Perot; congratulated him on the way he has energized so many people in the political process; told him that, of course, I would welcome his support and the support of those who have gotten behind him. We share the same principles with many of those people. And we're going to work hard to win them over, get their support. But it was a good phone call, and I probably will be talking to Mr. Perot again before too long.  But I see this as a positive development in a sense because I am convinced that the conservatives who are supporting Ross Perot, the legions of conservative people, will end up being with me because I think they share the same values that I speak about, the same principles that we put forward, and the same desire to change this economy and get things moving again.  So it was a good conversation and a very interesting and fascinating development in a very turbulent political year.  Presidential Campaign 
 No, there was no indication of that at all. 
 I think the economy has been the main reason for that. The economy has been sluggish. There are obviously signs that the recovery is underway. Many people have not felt that recovery. And I am absolutely convinced that when you have a long, drawn-out recession, when people's family are hurting, this accounts for that. 
 No, I don't think so. No, I don't. 
 Yes, because I think a lot of people that supported Ross want to see the kinds of changes that I want to see. They recognized in him a dynamic figure that could energize voters. But when it gets down to the issues, I think they're going to be much more on my side than on the side of the Democratic ticket. 
 Yes, I think it does. 
 Well, I don't know what my aides have been saying, but I can read the surveys like anybody else can. I think it helps us, and I think most people think so. 
 What? 
 We were sitting out, like on top of that mountain, although not that very mountain. It was a little hard to -- we had a disconnect on the conversation. 
 I've read those speculations, yes. 
 No, I can't resolve it here today at all. 
 I know nobody will believe this, but it is 3 o'clock in Wyoming, and honestly I have not talked about that with Jim Baker yet. 
 Always when I'm talking to an old, trusted friend, all options are open about what I talk about. But what happens, that's pure speculation. That subject has not come up. 
 No, there's no options open or closed on it. I just haven't discussed it. 
 Because I don't feel inclined to do that. I'm going to win this election, and I want the best possible team around me. Jim Baker's doing a superb job as Secretary of State, and he's off on a very important mission Saturday. So he's got a full portfolio right as it is. But who knows? I don't know. 
 No, I've said that a lot of my own personal campaigning and how I campaign will be on hold until after the Republican Convention. 
 I was fishing in a creek, and one of our aides came, I believe it was the military aide, and said that there was going to be a press conference in a few minutes and that it was widely reported in advance of the press conference that Mr. Perot intended to withdraw. I didn't hear the press conference. We've not listened to the television. I have not listened to the radio. I did, however, get a report, secondhand report, on the press conference and then after that placed a call to him. 
 I was surprised. I was surprised because Ross Perot has energized a lot of people in this country. He's gotten a lot of volunteers involved. You could feel it. And incidentally, there was some show of that out in San Diego. But I didn't detect any personal animosity from the people. I detect a great enthusiasm for Ross Perot. And that's one reason I think we have a fertile field in which to hunt for more support. 
 I beg your pardon. I have not watched the convention. 
 Have not seen it at all, not seen it. I've read some clippings about it, but I've not listened to it nor watched it. 
 Same as I did 4 years ago. Just want a little respite. 
 Well, I didn't hear that comment at all. What I thought he said, what I was told that he said for not continuing to run was that he wouldn't be able to get the votes that he would need if the race was thrown into the House, and he felt that it would be if he remained in the race. 
 No. No indication whatsoever. 
 Yes, I am. 
 I always do that, Ann . I always do that. I don't like to lose friends over politics. I never have. I've always turned the other cheek, and I've always tried to make new friends. And I don't think that's bad. I think that's a sign of character, not a sign of weakness. 
 I heard fairly well. He had a little difficulty. He told me it was breaking up. But no, he just said he appreciated the phone call and was very pleasant. But there was no substance discussed. 
 Well, didn't say anything. I didn't put it in the form that I was awaiting an answer at that very moment. It was more -- I just mentioned it.  President's Vacation 
 That's true. 
 Family. I had a son up here. The joy of fishing with your son in a river in Wyoming, I'll tell you, it's hard to compare with anything. And he has his son Jamie here, and Susan Baker is here. Barbara's not here. She catches headaches at altitude, and so she didn't come. But we just fished, talking about fishing.  You know, when you're out in a river with a friend, it doesn't matter much what you talk about. And I've concluded, not just because of my own record, it doesn't matter whether you catch any fish or not. You're there, and you're in the outdoors, and you're away from all the hubbub of, I think, one of the ugliest political years I've ever seen. And I've been around the track a long time. You forget about your day-to-day cares. And it's been a total joy for me.  Now, all this development today has kind of changed this day a little bit from yesterday. But it's been most enjoyable. So I couldn't even tell you what we talked about. We joke. We have fun. We reminisce. Jim Baker and I go back a long, long time. And our families are interlocked. Our kids are friends.  Presidential Campaign 
 I hadn't felt that it's been hyper-ugly, the campaign itself. 
 Didn't come up. Didn't come up. 
 Yes, I was surprised. I was surprised. 
 Well, it's happened so soon that I haven't had a chance to talk to any strategists about that. But clearly a two-way race is more traditional in the sense of American politics. And I think in the final analysis that I'll win this race. I think people will look at the big picture, the whole picture, and I believe we'll win. I think our values are right. I think the fact that kids go to bed with a little less fear about nuclear war these days, I think that's extraordinarily positive. I think the economy's tough, but I think what we've proposed to correct it is going to prove to be better than the opponent's.  So I'm prepared to take my case to the American people in the fall with renewed confidence. And I believe that I'll win this race. 
 You mean after the Perot thing? 
 Did not talk to him. Talked to him last night, but I didn't talk to him since the Perot matter. 
 I didn't ever think it would go to the House. 
 I'm reading the clips and listening all fall, all winter long. And I'll be prepared at the appropriate time to comment on that. 
 Congratulate Clinton? 
 On what? 
 Oh no, I forgot to do that.  But maybe I can do that now. He fought hard, and he won his party's nomination. Having been there before myself, I can say that's no mean achievement. But I'm perfectly glad to do that. And then we'll go to general quarters in the fall because we differ on almost everything on the issues, but we're going to keep it on the issues. 
 I don't believe I ever lost confidence in the two-party system because when you look back at our country and then compare it to democracies around the world or other systems, we've had the most stable possible political system for 200 years. And for most of that you had a viable, strong two-party system. I think in the final analysis, the American people understand that. That has not been in focus up to this point. But I've not lost confidence in it. And I just think that it has served our country well for a long time. I do think that the question mark of going to the House having been removed, that clarifies things for the American electorate and makes it easier in a sense because I think in some people's minds there was some doubt about that.  I think Judy's  trying to get some  
 I would leave that to him. 
 I expect there will be both.  Israel 
 No. If you'd help me with what announcement you're talking about. 
 Well, the Israeli election was a lot about that. And I can't comment on the statement. I've not seen it. But I'm looking forward to receiving the Prime Minister of Israel and hopefully in the next couple of weeks, next 2 or 3 weeks. I've pledged to work to strengthen the very important relationship between the two countries. But I just can't comment on that particular because literally I'm -- I've seen some clips, some summaries, what they call a White House News Summary. But I've not read the papers. I have not watched television. Sorry, Ann. And I have not listened to the radio on this. That's why I'm in such a wonderfully relaxed mood. And now I want to go back and catch a few more fish.  President's Vacation 
 It is an unimpressive record. However, here's my side of it.  I would like you to -- no, I caught two or three yesterday -- three, and two today. But it's not -- it's the hunt as well as catching the fish. It's trying to put the fly right where you think the action is and standing there in the beauty of this marvelous country of ours, standing in the middle of a stream. And it's very hard to describe. But for people that love the outdoors as I do, love this West as I do, why, they'll know what I mean. It's not catching the fish. It's being out there in nature with nature all around you. 
 Not near as good as his Secretary-of-State-ship. But his wife's cooking is superb.  Let me say hello to these guys. Thank you all for coming. Note: The President's 136th news conference began at 2:50 p.m. at the U.S. Air Force Pinedale Seismic Research Facility. In the news conference, the following persons were referred to: Robert Teeter, campaign chairman, Bush-Quayle '92; and Ed Rollins, former Perot campaign cochairman. 
