 Today, after long and thorough deliberation, I have determined that MFN  trade status for China should be extended for a year. MFN is not a special favor; it is not a concession; it's the basis of everyday trade. And taking MFN away is one thing I said I would not do; that is, in doing that, take steps that would hurt the Chinese people themselves. I do not want to do that.  To express America's outrage at the tragedy of Tiananmen, the Congress and my administration promptly enacted sanctions against China. These sanctions remain basically unchanged today. And while implementing those sanctions, I have repeatedly made clear that I did not want to hurt the Chinese people. And this was a difficult decision, weighing our impulse to lash out in outrage that we all feel -- weighing that against a sober assessment of our nation's long-term interests.  I concluded that it is in our best interest and the interest of the Chinese people to continue China's trade status. Not to do so would hurt the United States. Trade would drop dramatically, hurting exporters, consumers, and investors. China buys about $6 billion a year of American aircraft and wheat and chemicals, lumber and other products. Lose this market, and we lose American jobs: aircraft workers in the West, farmers in the Great Plains, high-tech employees in the Northeast.  Our economic competition will not join us in denying MFN. Without MFN, an average of 40 percent higher costs for Chinese imports will turn into higher prices for American consumers. Hong Kong weighed on my mind. Hong Kong would be an innocent victim of our dispute with Beijing. Twenty thousand jobs and $10 billion could be lost in a colony that is a model of free enterprise spirit. The United Kingdom and China's neighbors have urged me to continue MFN. Korea, Japan, Thailand, Singapore, even Taiwan made clear that MFN should be retained.  In recent weeks, China has taken modest steps that appear intended to show responsiveness to our concerns. Beijing lifted martial law in Tibet, restored consular access there, giving us a chance to judge the situation for ourselves. Two hundred eleven detainees were recently released and then their names provided for the first time. While we welcome these and earlier steps, they are, let's face it, far from adequate. And I am not basing my decision on the steps that the Chinese have taken so far.  Most important of all, as we mark the anniversary of Tiananmen, we must realize that by maintaining our involvement with China we will continue to promote the reforms for which the victims of Tiananmen gave their lives. The people in China who trade with us are the engine of reform, an opening to the outside world. During the past 10 years, we've seen our engagement in China contribute to the forces for justice and reason that were peacefully protested in Beijing. And our responsibility to them is best met not by isolating those forces from contact with us or by strengthening the hand of reaction but by keeping open the channels of commerce and communication.  Our Ambassador  came to see me here in the Oval Office the other day and told me that not only the people that he's in contact with but the students there, the intellectuals there, all favor -- there in China -- favor the continuation of MFN. So, this is why I've made the decision I have made.  And I will be glad to respond to questions. I understand, Helen , you are first.  Savings and Loan Crisis 
 We don't know the impact on the taxpayer yet. We do know that we are going to protect the depositors, and that's what this is all about. It isn't protecting any savings and loan people; it is protecting the depositors. Nick Brady testified on an array of figures because we don't know a specific figure. But he gave some broad parameters yesterday that are on the record.  And what we're going to do about it is have negotiations with the Congress, and out of this I'm sure we will have an answer Congress agrees with. And incidentally, I'm pleased with the way those talks are going -- that we'll figure out what to do. We can't brush this problem under the rug. It's been building for 20 years, and it is something that causes me great concern. 
 We don't think so. And I would simply refer you to the Secretary of the Treasury's testimony.  Trade With China 
 I made clear, Tom , I don't think this is a reward to Beijing. I think it is very important we keep these commercial contacts. I think it is in the interest of the United States that we keep these contacts. MFN is based on emigration, and emigration has continued from China at respectable levels. And so, that is why I'm making this decision.  And what irks me is when some of the people up on the Hill accuse me of being less interested than they are in human rights. I think we're on the right track here. I've cited the number of countries that agree with us. I've cited the fact that the students and the intellectuals in China itself agree with what I've just done. And so, it is not a favor we're doing. I have cited the need to balance out the interest of others, including Hong Kong, which is under enormous pressure from the refugee situation there. And so, this decision is the proper decision. And it has nothing to do with saying we're condoning human rights excesses. I took the lead a year ago at the G - 7  meeting in Paris and got our allies to join in sanctions that still exist. So, I'm glad you asked it because then I vented a spleen here. 
 Because the MFN is related to emigration. And the Soviets have not passed the necessary emigration legislation. 
 And China does have the proper policy.  Cambodia-U.S. Relations 
 We've seen some inaccurate reporting on whether we were sending arms in there, and we are not. And we are reviewing our Cambodian policy. It's very complicated. And, listen, anytime we can get free and certifiably fair elections, we should be encouraged by that. I'm troubled by it because it isn't clear in Cambodia at all. 
 To the degree it has any effect to help them, yes, I am uncomfortable about. But when we have this kind of compromise that has been worked out, at this juncture, I think we're on the right track. But there's a discomfort level, Brit , because of the brutality of the Khmer Rouge. And if anybody even perceives that we're trying to help those people, why, then it does cause discomfort. But I think we're on the right track. We are reviewing the whole policy now.  Lithuanian Independence 
 Michael , I was encouraged when the Prime Minister  -- having made her swing of the United States and other countries -- Prunskiene went to Moscow. I was encouraged when she was received by Mr. Gorbachev. I can't tell you I'm encouraged about where it stands right now. I have told you, told the American people, that this Lithuanian situation and, indeed, the situation regarding the Baltics, whose incorporation into the Soviet Union we have never recognized, does cause certain tensions. And Jim Baker had a very frank discussion with President Gorbachev about that. He understands from Jim Baker and, frankly, from me directly how we feel about this.  So, I wish I could give you a more optimistic assessment, but the only answer to this question lies in dialog between the affected parties. And I was encouraged when Prunskiene met with Mr. Gorbachev, but I have no reason now to report to the American people further encouragement. 
 Well, you're presenting me with some semantic difference that I did not intend to make. But I'm not here to assess blame; what I am here to do is to try to encourage dialog on this important question. It is extraordinarily difficult for both sides. And I think President Gorbachev is concerned not just about the Baltics but about other Republics. And I think the Lithuanians, understandably, are concerned about their freedom and their right to self-determination, although the Soviet Union still says self-determination is proper. They've got a difference on referendum; they have other differences.  Trade With China 
 It says that economic contacts are the best way to keep the economic reforms going forward. It says that the more economic contacts we have with China, the more they're going to see the fruits of free-market economies. I've told you that the students in China, according to our Ambassador, want to see this MFN continue. And so, it should send no message other than that isolation is bad and economic involvement is good.  And the whole fact that we've had economic involvement, I think, has moved China more towards reform than if we hadn't had it. And so, I want to see it continue. And that is the message to the people because it has -- some will interpret the way you've said, and I will say it has nothing to do with that. It has nothing to do with that at all. We have certain sanctions in place; they remain in place. China has got an emigration policy going that qualifies, and you have the interests of -- Taiwan says keep it going, Hong Kong says keep it going. Three editorials in this country -- well, maybe many, many more, I think -- who were upset with the fact that I opted for executive action instead of legislation all support continuation of MFN. And those people who were on my case, if you will, about the decision I took, which I still think was the correct decision, are now saying continue MFN. 
 No, because I think you wouldn't see all these other interests out there if it was simply that. Maybe there's some pressure on them; I don't know. But that's not what our Ambassador is telling me.  Federal Budget Negotiations 
 Texas? 
 Look, I have stated right here at this podium that I'm not going to go into the details of what might be discussed up there. I've said that there's no preconditions. I'm satisfied with the way the process is going. Indeed, I should give credit to  Mr. Gephardt for the conduct of these initial meetings. Our people -- Dick Darman, Nick Brady, John Sununu  -- up there, all working in good faith.  And I've seen those surveys, but it is way too early to start talking about remedies here. I want to let that process go forward; and then when I get agreement, I will go out and say to the American people, Here's what we recommend. And I'm not going to prejudge it. 
 Yes. 
 I think the G - 7 leaders know of my determination to do something about the budget deficit. So, I don't have the timeframe linked into progress or lack of progress by the time the summit meets in Houston. 
 Yes, Lesley ? 
 Yes, I've heard that criticism. 
 I'm going to outline the problem when we get agreement so we can go forward with the solution. If I outlined the problem now, I'd rely on some of the fact that the Congress appropriates all the money and raises all the revenues. That's their obligation. And I'm not one to dwell on surveys recently, but I will point out that people understand that the Congress bears a greater responsibility for this. But I'm not trying to assign blame. That's why I'm not doing it right now.  That's why I'm not doing it. That's why I'm saying we're going to sit and talk. Because if I go out now and say what I think without keeping in mind the need to get some progress, I might say something like I just said, and I don't want to do that.  
 My answer is, I am. We've gotten these people together. I've said there's no preconditions; let's talk. And I think it's making progress. You're going to always have some people on the fringes sniping at you. That goes with this territory. But I think we're on the right track, and we'll try to do our best to get a deal.  Trade With the Soviet Union 
 Well, I think there's a political climate in this country that would make it extraordinarily difficult to grant it. But that is not a bridge we're having to cross at this juncture because the legislation is not in place in the Soviet Union. 
 Well, but let's hope there's some progress on the Lithuanian question, because I think many feel there's a direct linkage there. And I must say it concerns me. 
 Because I want to see these negotiations start, and I want to see this emigration law pass. And there's a lot of things going on that are going to affect the whole climate of the economic aspects of this summit.  Upcoming Summit With President Gorbachev 
 I wouldn't phrase it exactly that way. You may recall that I mentioned in here -- in answer to the question, "Who's the enemy?" -- instability, unpredictability; and it would seem to me that I would repeat that. And I don't want to have two ships pass in the night -- Soviet Union and the United States. And we've got a lot to talk about.  I don't want to, by answering the question this way, indicate I don't think there will be significant progress on START. I hope we can move things forward on CFE. Indeed, I was heartened by what Shevardnadze  and Genscher  talked about yesterday. That was somewhat encouraging. Chemical weapons -- I hope I've expressed with great enthusiasm and passion my desire to do something about chemical weapons, and it looks to me like we're very, very close there.  So, we've got a lot of things that I think will be seen properly as progress, but there's enormous problems that just need to be talked about where I can't say there will be an answer. And I would refer you to the highly complex question of German unification: where forces will be deployed, and whose forces will be deployed after German unification. We've got questions on borders. We've got a lot of things to discuss that might not result in a signed agreement. 
 Well, I have to wait and see what he says when he gets here. But I feel that the man has got some enormous problems. He's made some enormous progress. I think he knows, from talking to Jim Baker after he got back, that we're not trying to undermine him or make life complicated for him. But we have certain differences with the Soviet Union, which I'll be perfectly prepared to talk about.  So, you know, it's a good question, and we were talking about it before coming in here. Because I don't want to overpromise, but I don't want to act like I think it's just some kind of a dance out there on this meeting because what we're going to talk about is really substantive. And I think the part where we can sit and talk at Camp David there -- I'm glad the Soviets have agreed to that because I think it's in that kind of a session after which I would probably be better able to answer the question you asked about the relationship itself.  Violence in the Israeli-Occupied Territories and the Middle East Peace Process 
 I've called on both sides for restraint. I've called on the Israeli forces to show constraint. I'm worried about it. I'm troubled about the loss of human life in this area. I'm deeply troubled about -- well, totally human life, but I think particularly of children in this kind of situation. The answer is to get these talks going. I will do everything I can to get the talks for peace going. And so, we're talking. I was on the phone yesterday, I think it was, with Mubarak . And we had very good talks -- pre-Baghdad summit -- with Ben Ali  here, who represents a friendly country. We're talking to a lot of people about how that can go. But, yes, I am very troubled by this. 
 The problem we face right now is this -- almost an interregnum -- there's no firm decisionmaking government in place. So, we're in a bit of hiatus because of that.  Mexico-U.S. Relations 
 No. 
 The answer is no. Go ahead and follow up. 
 I'm not going to get into that because we have some matters in the court on that question. But the reason I answer -- and I wasn't being flip about it -- that relationship is too important that no incident is going to disrupt it. The respect I feel for President Salinas is shared by the American people. The determination to keep this relationship that has already moved forward continuing to move forward is shared by the American people.  Today I'll be meeting with some parliamentarians, a group, incidentally, that I've belonged to 20 -- let's see how many -- 20-some years ago. And I'm sure some of these questions will come up. But I'm not going to go into anything that might conflict with the legal problem. But I did be sure that the President of Mexico knows that we did not grab that doctor and -- Americans did not do that. I think that has helped somewhat.  Gun Control 
 Look, Rita , I have not changed my position on ammunition clips. I read in the paper somewhere that we had changed it, backed off of that position. That isn't true. I sent a crime bill, however, to the Congress, and I'd like to see it enacted -- a law enforcement bill. Congress knows of the difficulties. You saw it passed yesterday by one vote -- this ban. I am not supporting that.  And I wish the Congress wouldn't keep adding matters of this nature. Let's get a good strong anticrime bill, and then we can have an open debate again on whatever they want to talk about. But all I can do is perfect legislation by saying, Here's what I can accept, and here's what I can't. And if they want to add something on these clips, that's fine; it would have my strong support. The automatic weapon part does not have my strong support. 
 Consider this a strong pitch for it right now.  Federal Budget Negotiations 
 Are we going to make the promise? Things are complicated out there on this subject. We're trying very hard to get a budget agreement, and that's the way it is, and we'll see how we go. And I reported I think that we've started off now, in a bipartisan nature, doing a good job. I wish we could control the spending side better. I refer you once again -- I don't want to ruin the last minute getting Nicaragua-Panama passed, but I sent it up there at $800 million, and it's now $2-plus billion. But we'll keep plugging away, and I'd like to do it exactly the way I propose. I'm now enough of a realist to realize that it might not be done exactly that way.  Now, here's my problem. I have a 10 a.m. meeting with the leader of Haiti , and we've got some problems there that we're trying to help to resolve. So, I can take two more. One. Two.  Arms Reduction Negotiations 
 There is no light between us on that at all. The administration has a unified position. It is a sound position. There's no point just before you sit down to say, They caved; they gave more than we did. But I am very satisfied with where we stand. All I want to do is be sure we can move forward and get these deals finalized, and we may not be able to do that. But it doesn't help for me to go out and say who gave the most, who knuckled under, who took the most heat -- too much pressure. I support what Jim Baker reported to me was where we stand at this juncture in negotiations.  I'll tell you what troubles me is that we're not -- somebody asked the question here -- not further along on conventional forces. But the strategic arms talks are going very well. We still haven't got a firm deal, as you know.  But to get back to your question, there isn't any daylight between the White House and the State Department or the arms control community or Defense. The proposals that Jim Baker is talking about has the strong support of the Joint Chiefs and of the Secretary of Defense. So, this is very encouraging that the administration is united. Now, we're going to have some criticism. Many times you make a deal, you have editorials out there telling you exactly how it should be done. But I am confident that we're on the right track.  Follow up, and then we go over for one more to Frank . 
 Well, I think that that's a good point and one that I expect the Soviets would want to dispel through action, because I don't get the feeling that they are opposed to CFE agreements. I do think, for complicated reasons involving Eastern Europe, that the talks haven't gone as far or as fast as I would like to see them.  But read carefully what Shevardnadze and Genscher allegedly talked about yesterday, and Genscher will be here talking about that. And maybe we can find some way at the summit or before the summit to move CFE forward. It's important, and I think it does send a bad signal if the Soviets look like they are refusing to go forward and don't want to, say, pull forces out of countries in accordance with previous deals.  Statehood for the District of Columbia 
 None so far, and I am opposed to statehood for the District. 
 About what? 
 Haven't really got it in mind; interested in talking about it. Have done nothing about it at all except to continually restate my opposition -- because this is a Federal city -- to statehood for the District. 
 Well, I haven't even seen the legislation. I don't know whether the Senate and the House have agreed on a bill. But I think my position is very clear, and I'm not going to sign a statehood bill. And so, I don't want to be under any false colors on this. I've said that over the years, and I have not changed my position.  Thank you. 
 That's a followup on a followup. I've got to go see the President of Haiti. 
 Marlin  had to clean up what I said.  
 Because it's a Federal city. That's it.  Thank you very much.
