 Well, why don't we get started on this scrum, as we call it. In the first place, Barbara and I have just been delighted to have the Prime Minister and Mrs. Mulroney here. And we had a chance this morning -- it started out as just a chat, and ended up spending close to 4 hours talking about issues affecting not only U.S.-Canada but a wide array of issues affecting the whole world, as a matter of fact. As usual, I've learned a lot from the Prime Minister, and we've really had a substantive discussion. John Sununu and Brent Scowcroft dropped in for some of the discussion. And I can say this -- and I'll let the Prime Minister have equal time -- that the relationship between the United States and Canada, a most significant and important relationship, is in good shape.  I have found, just in the short time that I've been in this job, and with respect to the -- certainly the Prime Minister with much more experience in leading a country than I -- but I have found that I can either pick up the phone and talk to him with a frankness that is very important, or in a visit of this nature, which we deliberately billed as a private visit, talk to him with no holds barred. We agree on almost all the major issues. And where Canada and the U.S. may have bumps in the road, we can talk very frankly. He is always very frank with me, expressing the Canadian point of view so strongly, and gives me a chance to understand that position. And of course, I feel no inhibitions in telling him where the United States is coming from.  And though we have a few more hours of this most pleasant visit -- from my standpoint at least and, thus, from the standpoint of the United States, it's been an unusually productive visit. And I'm just again, Brian, so pleased, sir, that you are here.  The Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, George.  Well, I really am here to give you the impartial international assessment of the fact that there are no fish out there.  I can certify to that. It's not the President's fault there are none -- at least not for awhile, at least not for awhile.   Well, we've had a very pleasant and productive visit. Mila and I and the children have enjoyed the hospitality, and we of course enjoy the Bushes and their family a great deal. And so, we had a good opportunity, beginning at breakfast this morning, to really -- the President and I -- to review important bilateral relations between Canada and the United States from the environment to trade. And then, in the course of kind of an unscheduled next couple of hours, to get more and more into international issues, some of which flow from the Paris summit, others which the President has initiated or seeks to initiate.  And Canada views this relationship as a very special one. We have the largest trading relationship in the world between our two countries; and we have currents of history and bonds of friendship that are, I suspect, unrivaled anywhere. And so, this is an indication of the value of the friendship; this is an occasion for us, as well, to seek to improve it.  We have challenges and tensions from time to time. And the best way to deal with them is in a straightforward way, and that's exactly what we've done. And I thank the President for his hospitality, which we've greatly enjoyed.  Thank you very much, Mr. President.  The President. Merci .  Now, any questions? And why don't we do like we did before, if it's agreeable, sir -- just alternate.  Situation in Panama and Colombia   No. Working to be sure that all the countries in the OAS understand why we feel as we do about Noriega is very important. And I am not going to give up on multilateral diplomacy. I am going to continue to work with the leaders in this hemisphere, most of whom feel as I do about Noriega, to see if we can't help the Panamanian people get what they deserve; and that is a democratic society that stems from free, fair elections. And so, we are going to continue to press the case in OAS and every other way.   Keep working on it; keep working the problem.   The main thing is to cooperate with President Barco in the ways that he feels are most effective. That's the best thing. There is no point on Canada or the United States or the Group of Seven  or any individual country or group of countries imposing its will on a country that is now trying very, very hard to rid itself of this menace. And so, I know that I -- the Prime Minister and I have discussed this -- we would be guided by requests from President Barco in Colombia.    Canada-U.S. Relations   Well, look, on the whole area of trade, because the Prime Minister stood firm in a tough political context for a free trade agreement, dramatic progress has been made. There are still bumps in the road. There are going to still be areas that he and I need to discuss and that our trade representatives need to discuss, to iron these bumps out. And so, the broad area of agreement is relating to the free trade agreement itself, and then where we have disagreements there's going to be a case-by-case looking at problems.  We talked, for example, about a specific: There's been a fishing problem between Canada and the United States regarding lobsters. It's a matter of some concern to me. Well, we decided, look, let's talk about it frankly, refer it to our experts, and then get on with solving it. So, he has been in the forefront of change for environmental protection. And we've come forward now in the United States, trying to have a package that I would encourage our Congress to pass that would do something about acid rain, for example. But again, problems still remain until we put into effect our legislation and then move forward even further with Canada.  So, where we have broad agreements, trade agreement, there are bound to be matters as we go down the road that are going to need to be ironed out. In terms of the Group of Seven, in terms of the East-West relations, in terms of how we look at matters south of the United States border -- and I'm talking about Panama, for example -- I find that the Prime Minister and I, and Canada and the United States, are very, very much in accord. And there are other issues where we may have differences, but in these broad ones, there's agreement, and the problems come on some of the specifics. But amongst friends we can hammer out those difficulties.  Colombia   There has been discussion of an antinarcotic summit. Indeed, I talked to President Barco about that the other day. I feel totally free to make suggestions to him. But all I'm saying is that we must be sensitive, as this man goes to work and has rolled up his sleeves and is putting a lot at risk, that we not be counterproductive in our efforts to help him. But I feel free in talking to him to discuss any subject.  And I've made clear to him, John , in my last conversation with him, that, please, let us know what in addition that we might do to help. But I think you have to be sensitive in understanding of the history in this hemisphere, and you cannot try to impose a solution on a country that is struggling very hard on their own -- with international help -- to solve this problem.   Well, there's no question that multilateralism makes great sense in trying to help. But if the question implies intervention of a multilateral force, there again, if requested    Oh, no question, no question that that would be better. And from our standpoint, it would be better, as it affects the neighbors of Colombia. But again, I don't want to -- just through even responding to your question -- to appear to be pushing a solution on a man who has dug in there, whose ministers are coordinating their efforts now, and to do something or say something that would be counterproductive and turn public opinion that's now mobilized in Colombia against President Barco's efforts. But, yes -- I'm sorry I missed the question -- but, yes, I think an international effort on whatever line it is -- aid, help of any kind -- would be useful.  Canada-U.S. Trade   I don't know where this is coming from, what our emphasis is going to be. I would simply suggest that people wait until I announce this national drug strategy. In fact, before I came over here, I said: "What is this story that there's a whole new emphasis being placed on how we fight drugs? It's going to have to be done on every front."  And there's been a lot of concentration, with some success, on interdiction. But the job isn't finished, and certainly we are not going to move away from attempting to interdict. So, I don't know where the speculation is coming from as to what emphasis we're going to place because when I come out with this program I'm going to urge that the emphasis be placed on all points.   There's going to be a new -- he is correct on that. There is going to be a greater emphasis on that. But I wouldn't say that it's going to be a greater emphasis at the expense of cooperating with Mr. Barco or cooperating with rehab or cooperating with law enforcement or going after the criminal elements more. So, we'll see. I didn't exactly see his comments, but it shouldn't be interpreted that we're going to move out of the drug interdiction field. We cannot do that.  Visit of Prime Minister Mulroney   Now, wait just a minute for clarification.   The Prime Minister. The wind, however, intervened, preventing me from inflicting great damage on his reputation.  So, we haven't gotten around to that. But we've been swimming -- we've been out in the boat   The President. Horseshoes this afternoon.  The Prime Minister.  a little fishing -- by me, unsuccessfully.  So, we've had a good time, full time.  Drug Flow Across the Canadian Border   Is this for the Prime Minister or for me?   Well, one of the things that we did at the G - 7 meeting in Paris was to set up a coordinating committee. And one of the things that will be activated in regards to this food request is that committee. Mr. Delors  is heading it. Bob Dole came back here with Secretary Dole, stopped in here, and made clear to me that, in their opinion, there was a need for immediate support in the food area.  And that is one where we ought to be able to do more. We've done a lot. But we will be working that problem this coming week and trying to comply with the wishes of the various leaders in Poland. So, I think we can do more there. But again, we have -- as you know, when we treat with food aid -- we have budgetary problems just like other countries do. But when it comes to food, why, I think the world should have the quickest possible response.   No, we haven't got the numbers on it yet, Norm .   Mais non. J'ai -- I learned my lesson in Ottawa -- not to try.   Visit of Prime Minister Mulroney   The highlight? Well, I don't know that I can single one thing out, but if it does nothing else, it symbolizes the friendly relationship that we have with Canada. And I am determined that as long as I am President, I will never take for granted friends. It is very important, from what I need to learn to do my job better, to stay in touch with Prime Minister Mulroney. And this visit has been as good, if not better, than the other such visits we've had, even when I was Vice President. We had a relationship where we could talk very, very frankly. We could get out our disagreements, as well as the things we agreed on -- no acrimony. And he's had a lot of experience in these G - 7 meetings and in other international meetings; and I find it extraordinarily helpful to me to just bounce ideas off him -- and maybe vice versa -- when it comes to East-West relations; when it comes to the changes in Eastern Europe; when it comes to what's happening in Central America, or indeed, in Asia.  And so, the highlight is not only the personal chemistry that I think is good but the fact that we can talk as neighbors in a very unfettered way about a wide array of problems without fearing that we're going to have some misunderstanding or some leak, or something that's going to embarrass either one of us. And that is important. That is a very important point.  Canadian Lobster Exports   This is the last question, the one that always gets you in trouble. Yes, come on, Michael .    Well, we were, curiously, discussing that just today. Clearly, we're not going to recognize Mr. Noriega. We've got sanctions in place that will continue. We are considering what additionally might be done. And I've never seen a coming together in world opinion as there is on this one amongst the major nations: that Noriega ought to get out. And I was very pleased with the Canadian initiative, on its own, making clear to Noriega that he's subverting the democratic way. And other leaders have done this.  We had  Prime Minister Schluter up here the other day, as you know. And he felt, rather than make a joint European demarche, that it's better for countries individually to go forward, as Denmark has planned to do. Mrs. Thatcher has taken a strong position. I think we just got a letter from her today on this.  And so, there's a lot going on in terms of making clear to Noriega that he is just not only aborting the will of the people, but he is frustrating sound, normal relations with a lot of countries. So, let's hope that reason will prevail. But we're going to keep going forward, and we will consider what additionally we might do. There's a high frustration level. I'm ready to concede that, but we are not going to give up on this. We are not going to permit the will of the people of Panama to be thwarted by this dictator, especially at a time when the whole hemisphere is moving down democracy's path.  Thank you all very, very much.   I don't know.   No comment on that.  President's Vacation   Oh, yes. Would you like a fishing assessment? Would you really like to know    I told you what I thought yesterday, and this is getting out of hand. And so, between now and when I leave on Monday, I guarantee you -- I positively guarantee you that this jinx will be broken. I've seen a lot of good .350 hitters bat about .178 for a while. Then they come out of the slump and move forward. My record fishing in these waters is well-known. It's a superb record, a record of bountiful catches. And somehow, something's gone wrong for the last 13 days --  -- something's happened. But I promise you -- I promise you that -- in fact, we're thinking of having a poll to take a media person with us when Barbara and I go out to thwart these evil rumors that I don't know what I'm doing fishing. It's gotten out of hand. When I see it on national television, I know we've got to put an end to this monkey business. So, we will prevail. And besides that, everyone knows fishing is a team sport.   The Prime Minister. I just want to issue a formal denial here. It is not the case that there are out in the bay Canadian frogmen with Nova Scotia salmon ready to put on anybody's line.   The President. I hope they will be.
