 Terry ?  Persian Gulf Crisis 
 There will be a military briefing at the Pentagon -- I think it's within an hour -- and so, I'll leave the numbers to them. I would expect there would be some reluctance to give out specific numbers at this point for very obvious reasons.  What was the last part of your  
 Well, as you know from what I said, they're there in a defensive mode right now, and therefore, that is not the mission to drive the Iraqis out of Kuwait. We have economic sanctions that I hope will be effective to that end. And I don't know how long they'll be there. They just got there or are just getting there. 
 Nothing is open-ended, but I'm not worrying about that there at all. I'm worrying about getting them there and doing what I indicated in our speech in there is necessary: the defense of the Saudis and trying through concerted international means to reverse out this aggression. 
 We're not in a war. We have sent forces to defend Saudi Arabia. I will leave announcements about what other nations will be participating to the Saudis. But I believe Margaret Thatcher, after talking to King Fahd , has announced that forces will be going in; and then I think you'll see other such actions. But I'd much prefer to leave that to Saudi Arabia, who indeed -- it's their country. 
 Well, I, having talked to Mubarak  a couple of times myself, feel that we are in very close agreement with him.  Who was your other country you asked about? 
 Morocco -- very, very supportive of the Saudis and of our overall position on the Mideast. So, I was very pleased with the Cheney mission in that regard.  Brit ? 
 I've been encouraged that there have been actually announcements, I believe, saying people were free to leave. So, I'm not going to speculate or hypothecate beyond that. I want to see them out of there, obviously. But what he does -- that's a bit unpredictable. But I'm not going to try to heighten tensions in this regard by responding to hypothetical questions that might go beyond your question. 
 I can provide only the assurance that I consider the protection of American life fundamental to my job and responsibilities as President. 
 I think anytime you deal with somebody who has used chemical weapons on the battlefield you are concerned about it. I would think that he'd know, given the way the world views the use of chemical weapons, that it would be intolerable and that it would be dealt with very, very severely. So, I would hope that there would be no use of chemical weapons. 
 I have not heard anything of that. 
 I believe that the Venezuelans have announced a significant increase, and I expect you'd find others to follow.  And what was the first part, John ? 
 That matter will be discussed, I'm sure. And I know that the Saudis are fully in accord with the action taken by the United Nations in terms of chapter VII sanctions. But we have no deal with them in that regard. 
 That decision didn't come to me, but there's plenty of reporters in Saudi Arabia right now. 
 I'd have to discuss that with the Secretary of Defense. I'm glad that that many forces could be moved with not too much advance warning and with not too much, therefore, risk to Saudi Arabia or to these troops. 
 There was no one single thing that I can think of, but when King Fahd requested such support, we were prompt to respond. But I can't think of an individual, specific thing. If there was one, it would perhaps be the Saudis moving south when they said they were withdrawing. 
 I mean the Iraqis. Thank you very much. It's been a long night. The Iraqis moving down to the Kuwait-Saudi border when, indeed, they had given their word that they were withdrawing. That heightened our concern. 
 The Soviets have been very responsible, in my view. They have joined the United Nations on that resolution; and  Jim Baker, as recently as yesterday afternoon or evening, was in touch with Shevardnadze  again. And you know, I can't ask for a more favorable response than he received.  Yes, Gerry ? 
 Well, we've taken this first significant step to defend Saudi Arabia. The economic sanctions should begin to bite pretty soon. There will be further steps taken to ensure that they are fully effective. And then we'll wait and see where we go from there. But I'm not beyond that in my thinking. There obviously is a lot of contingency planning that always goes on and, prudently, should go on.  Charles , then Ann . 
 They didn't tell us that, but it would not be at all surprising if there was an Arab component in that force, not at all. 
 Well, I'm not going to comment on -- because I think announcement of all components really should come from the participating countries.  Yes, Ann? 
 No. I told you I wouldn't be surprised if that happened but I'd much prefer to have the announcements of that come from others. I think it is important that the focus be on Saudi requests and on defensive nature of the move we've made with these forces.  Yes, Ann? 
 I'm not sure I totally believe them. I hope they're telling the truth. 
 Well, I've had a source of movement by some foreigners. So, I would hope that this would then apply to Americans. 
 Economic sanctions, in this instance, if fully enforced, can be very, very effective. It's a rich country in terms of oil resources. They're a poor country, in a sense, because he squandered much of the resource on military might. And there are some indications that he's already beginning to feel the pinch, and nobody can stand up forever to total economic deprivation. 
 I am not going to go into hypothetical situations. We've been very careful not to do that, and I simply am not going to respond.  Maureen ? Then we'll go to the aisle. 
 I can't answer that because we have a major objective with those troops, which is the defense of the Soviet Union, so I think it's beyond  
 A defense of Saudi Arabia. So, I think it's beyond just the question of the tanks along the border. 
 They have a lot of air power, for example. 
 I'm not preparing for a long ground war in the Persian Gulf. There's not a war going on there right now. 
 My military objective is to see Saudi Arabia defended. That's the military objective. Our overall objective is to see Saddam Hussein get out and go back and to have the rightful regime of Kuwait back in place. 
 Let me ask you -- I'm not going to take the question on the exact military problem there because we're going to have a thorough briefing at the Pentagon. I think they're much better equipped to handle that kind of detail.  On Saddam Hussein, look, we've tried very hard to see if there wasn't a way to have somewhat improved relations. There's no question about that. And I have no regret about having tried to have discussions that might have led to a better relationship. But that had to stop the minute you have this kind of aggression. But I think, having tried tentatively to have a little better relationship with the person over the last couple of years, we've still been very, very wary all along of his intentions. 
 No, I don't feel let down by the intelligence at all. When you plan a blitzkrieg-like attack that is launched at 2 o'clock in the morning, it's pretty hard to stop, particularly when you have just been given the word of the people involved that there wouldn't be any such attack. And I think the intelligence community deserves certain credit for picking up what was a substantial buildup and then reporting it to us. This information was relayed properly to interested parties, but the move was so swift that it was pretty hard for them to stop it. I really can't blame our intelligence in any way -- fault them in this particular go-around.  Yes, Ellen ? 
 We view them there to defend Saudi Arabia, and hopefully, their presence there will deter adventurism against any of the other Gulf countries. 
 I'm not going to give you a list, but we're certainly interested in the freedom and the independence of all those countries in the GCC , just for openers. 
 An operation of this nature has considerable expense associated with it. But I've asked for some estimates now as to what that price may be. But whatever it is, we're going to have to pay it, but I don't have the exact figures yet.  John ? 
 You might interpret it that way. I'm not prepared to say that I think that's what the outcome will be because I think if there is this pullback that the world is calling for, and if the sanctions are effective, I think you would reduce the risk of future adventurism. 
 Well, I think it will start very, very soon. I don't know about today by way of   Gerry ?  Federal Budget Negotiations 
 I still think it's absolutely essential to get a budget agreement. And that's going to require a lot of compromise, and it's going to require a lot of principle. But you know, what I want to do is separate out my feelings about the budget now that I feel uninhibited by an agreement not to say anything, because I want to tell you exactly how strongly I feel about it, but I don't want to do it here today. I don't want to mix it into this briefing that is largely dominated by the world concern about the Middle East. But I feel like a liberated human being now. I don't feel bound by  
 May I finish what I'm saying here? I don't feel --  -- I don't feel bound by an agreement that I've told the congressional leaders is no longer in effect. We've been getting one side of that, mainly from the Democrats in the Congress, and now you're fixing to get the other. But not this minute; you have to stay tuned.  Persian Gulf Crisis 
 I have not been advised of that. I hope that is not the case. What I hope to do is see a reduction in oil prices once it becomes clear that there will not be shortage. There's an overhang now of oil in the marketplace -- thank God. We have a Strategic Petroleum Reserve that we can draw from. Other countries have the same -- a couple of other countries have SPR's themselves. And I hope that this rapid spike on oil prices will not be permanent. And I think if the world begins to see assurances that there will not be a dramatic cutoff or cut-down on oil, that then things will return much more to normal in the market. 
 One more after this. 
 I would think that if this international lesson is taught well that Saddam Hussein would behave differently in the future. And that's what has been so very important about this concerted United Nations effort -- unprecedented, you might say, or certainly not enacted since 19 -- what was it -- 23 years ago, 23 years ago. So, I don't think we can see that clearly down the road. But a line has been drawn in the sand. The United States has taken a firm position. And I might say we're getting strong support from around the world for what we've done. I've been very, very pleased about that. Large countries and small countries -- the world reaction has been excellent. And I would hope that all of this would result in Saddam Hussein or some calmer heads in Iraq understanding that this kind of international behavior is simply unacceptable. We see where we go.  Yes, Sarah ? 
 This is the last question. 
 I don't know what they owe us for food. But I know that this embargo, to be successful, has got to encompass everything. And if there's a humanitarian concern, pockets of starving children or something of this nature, why, I would take a look. But other than that, this embargo is going to be all-encompassing, and it will include food. And I don't know what Iraq owes us now for food. Generally speaking, in normal times, we have felt that food might be separated out from -- you know, grain, wheat -- might be separated out from other economic sanctions. But this one is all-encompassing, and the language is pretty clear in the United Nations resolution.  Thank you all very much. And let me just say this on a personal basis: I've screwed up a couple of times here, and I'm very grateful for your assistance in straightening it out. God, I'd hate to have some of those answers stand. Thank you.
