 Good morning. I have no announcements of my own. \. No, other than to continue to urge both sides to continue negotiations to find a reasonable answer. This suggestion was' made in my letter that I sent to both sides some days back.  There is one misapprehension I think I should clear up. Someone reported to me that they thought I had personally requested a continuation of work for 2 weeks. I took no such action. I simply asked that they continue to negotiate until a solution was reached. \. Well, I certainly have not reached any conclusion about the suggestion you just bring to my attention because this is the first time I have heard of it.  There are very many questions, very serious, in such a meeting because, after all, the United States is a member of a group of nations that try to work together in defending their own interests for promoting peace and their own security. So, for one head of such a government to make anything that could be called a negotiation or an agreement would rather be difficult, and I would say possibly misunderstood.  Now, if you have a meeting of the kind that takes place between the heads of government when they come here, or I go somewhere else, then you'd say that's more social--it has a social aspect--ceremonial, and that sort of thing, a gesture of good will. But I assume that we are now talking about real tough negotiations; it would have to be studied very thoroughly before you would make any move in that direction. \. Well, I don't think anything about it at all. I don't believe that responsible people should indulge in anything that can be even remotely considered ultimatums or threats. That is not the way to reach peaceful solutions. \. Here is something that I would never rule out of the realm of possibility. But we have, as I say, very tough questions to settle. We have to concert our positions with our friends and allies. So if this man were to make just a ceremonial visit, I'd say there it would be a matter of his own, let's say, reception that would be important in the country. \. As I understand it, some of these movements are taking place. And, of course, General de Gaulle and I have agreed long since that at the first opportunity we would talk together about many things that are of interest to both countries. This particular one had not been specified, but we have agreed that all of the matters where we don't see quite eye to eye, why, we should talk over and see if we can do anything about it. \. Well, I'm not thinking so much of public images as I am the public good.  I call your attention, again, that I cannot be running for anything; I am finished with political life when my next, I guess it's 18 months, are over.  It seems to me if any man has almost the compulsion to think only of the United States of America and its citizens rather than any political image or political ambition, then I should be, or any President who is in his second term today should be, such an individual.  So the veto is used by me not lightly. I don't enjoy having to say that these things are bad and to explain the reasons why I think they are bad. What I'm trying to do is to get legislation passed that will benefit the United States and keep us solvent at the same time. \. I think there has been no change in our attitude from that reported by Mr. Herter shortly after he returned from Geneva from his prior visit.  We continue to say that the firm position we have is that of respecting our responsibilities and making certain that we retain our rights with respect to Berlin. From there on, and with that solid conviction as the unmovable stone in the whole structure, we are ready to talk and discuss anything because we certainly do want to find some way of reaching a solution that will not keep the whole world on edge--for example, as evidenced by the number of questions that are properly brought up on this matter right here in meetings such as this. I concede that under the present conditions they are proper, and they are newsworthy. But we are trying to get to a place where that will be a little less than that. We must do it, in my opinion, if we are going to do a real service for the citizens of the world. \. Myself? \. Well, I suppose there are certain phases of a segregation-you are talking about, I suppose, segregation by local laws-- \.--in other words, that interfere with the citizens' equality of opportunity in both the economic and the political fields? \. I think to that extent, that is morally wrong, yes. \. I Saw nothing new. Of course there was a great protestation of friendly intentions; just as I say, on my side, that we want to be friendly, that we recognize that there is a basic friendship between the Russian people and our people. Everybody that comes back and reports this, reports the interest of the Russian people in what we are doing, how we live. They seem to feel that it will be a great service to mankind when the feelings of those people are allowed to be influential, let's say. And I say the same thing.  I would say I think the American people basically like the Russian people, as they know them. So therefore I think there ought to be some way of exploiting that natural almost affinity between the two peoples and see whether we can't get somewhere. \. Well, you sound to me a little bit like a lawyer, Mrs. Craig, because I'm not so sure; I don't see how you could first of all deny any Commander in Chief, as a matter of fact, of exercising the responsibility for some delegation when it needs to be done. That's just his job, that's the way he would run things.  If in an emergency Mr. Nixon would succeed to my responsibilities, I would think that he would take them over in toto for whatever period he was there, and that there would be no reason for him not doing so. He would, in fact, be the acting President; and of course, in the case of a fatality, why then he'd be the permanent President.  So I think there would be no question about that at all. \. I don't know exactly what would be the effect. It would depend upon the recovery and its duration.  I do say this: I really believe that it's a pity that we can't all act in accordance with our basic conceptions as to what is good for the country, and therefore not have a strike. I think that in the industrial field a strike is the last action that can ever be taken that is possible to take. We ought to negotiate and keep negotiating until we have gotten somewhere. And I really believe that it can be done if people will just keep before their eyes what the United States needs, rather than just each side. \. I think that's one of the things that you have to consider when you think about such visits back and forth. But, on the other hand, I think that the citizens of the United States are accustomed to paying to the head of any country that comes here, or one of their high officials, the deportment that is expected from civilized people. They show that kind of deportment, and I don't think that they are necessarily showing any approval.  Now, I admit that such things are possible of misinterpretation, and that's one reason I say we must be very careful indeed when we do these things. \. Well I guess everybody would have their own, but I don't admit for a second all of the allegations you make in your premise-[laughter]--to be fact. I am having really a very busy, hard time because I think there are too many people that are not looking at many of these problems in the broadest possible way. When you come down to it, I stick by that; I am trying to do what I believe will be good for the country, and I repeat, as I said this morning, I don't enjoy vetoing bills. I don't believe that there is any validity in such expressions as "government by veto."  I am part of the process of legislation and when I, who am the only official, along with the Vice President, who is voted into office by all the people, I think I have got a special responsibility to all the people. So I try to tell them and explain to them what I am doing. If they approve, that ought to have some effect. \. Yes. \. I knew that none of their appropriations could be used for propaganda purposes, or what we would prefer calling educational purposes, but I did not know that this barred newspaper people in visiting these offices from getting facts, and I will look into it. Certainly, when I go on the television, and I have done it several times on this mutual security business, I tell the facts right down the line as far as my time will allow me to do so. And I think it should be done. Pardon me, just let me take a minute of time, now.  I think the number one problem for the United States, and even for the world today, is this: for all Americans to understand the basic issues confronting us. Public opinion is the only motivating force there is in a republic or in a democracy, and that public opinion must be an informed one if it is going to be effective in solving the problems that face this poor world internationally and in many instances domestically.  Therefore, I think that any trouble we take to keep people informed, as long as we are not damaging in any way the national security, I think we ought to do it, and there ought to be some way.  I didn't know about this particular--well, I suppose I've been told about it, but I didn't think of it at the time, and I'll look into it. \. Yes. \. No, I haven't discussed with him this particular point, no, because I really didn't realize that the law was this strict and specific. \. Yes. \.  You look at it for me. I'll look it up. \. Well, there are a number of things. Of course I can use every bit of persuasive power that I have to make these people see that they are, to my mind, ignoring some of the basic considerations in the security of this Nation and in the security of our vital interests in other areas. Next, if we haven't enough of the means to carry out the responsibilities we believe to be ours, there is always the possibility for deficiency bills. And if you don't have that, if you can't do it because of the lack of authorization, law, then you could have only one other recourse and that would be a special session.  But in any event, I am never going to give up the basic fight for the Nation's security and for protecting our vital interests, as I see them. I asked here what I thought was a minimum sum, $1.6 billion. The Draper committee thought we ought to go $400 million more, and I agree that in the '61 budget there has to be more than 1.6.  Now, they are cutting this 1.6, and I just personally believe that they are not taking into account the tremendous responsibilities that the United States has in these areas, if we are going to protect our own interest, and to keep our own expenditures down to the minimum in this whole area of national and free world security. \. Well, the first one is simple. Of course there is no reason. As far as I am concerned, it's a perfectly extraneous question. I think it's like asking a man whether he is a Methodist or a Presbyterian or something of that kind. I do not agree at all with the theory that prejudice, religious prejudice, should rule our choice of candidates and officials in this Nation.  Now whether he could be elected, whether it could be done, I have no opinion whatsoever.  Now, there was only once, of course, At Smith was nominated, and he was defeated. I don't know whether the thinking of the country has changed, but I'll say this: if I saw any man that I thought was really a qualified responsible individual running for office, my vote would never be changed on the basis of his religion. \. You are referring to the statements made by Mr. Khrushchev? \. Well, that's the only written word on this that I have seen, reading the accounts of his own statements. \. One of the reasons, Mr. Morgan, that I have made such strenuous efforts to get properly organized and supported what I call the National Goals Commission--for the simple reason that I think we are doing too much of our thinking, indeed of our operations in political Washington on the basis of just "one time," of the one trip of the earth around the sun, and this to my mind makes no sense whatsoever.  We have got to look ahead and we ought to see today, when we pass a law, what's going to be its effect 5 years from now. A bill, for example, that cost you $15 million now, as you look and begin to analyze it, well, in 5 years it will be $75 million, and that kind of thing. In the same way, everything we do of a constructive character, where is it going to lead us, what's it doing? We've got to do the same thing whether it's trying to increase our GNP, of course which is going up now, but I mean if we're going to have a steady growth instead of a sort of a cyclic thing that is all dips and ups. We don't want that, we want a steady growth. And I am for it. \. Well, there is a great deal of work in getting it all organized and financed, because I am determined it will not be done by the Government. It's going to be done privately. \. I think they are, Mr. Drummond. It seems to me we have been talking about both the near- and far-term consequences of failure to get some kind of an agreement. We are constantly plagued with this, that we are putting more of our substance, more of our sweat, our toil, and our man-hours into these negative things we call armaments for no reason whatsoever, no constructive thing. They're just to hold on what we have. We are, even our minds are atmosphered in the thought of destruction. We think in terms of atomic bombs and missiles. The world is suffering a terrible loss, I think spiritually and materially, in every way, in this failure. But I'm quite sure that the people are alerted to. what could be the eventual consequences of this failure, and that's the reason we must never stop trying, and that's the reason I say I am personally ready to go any place where I think any good can be done, and at any time.  So, if they are not alert to it, then I don't know where they are, because I do meet a good many types of people from the soldiers and the people that are working around me, and I know that their understanding is quite clear that this is a tough situation all the time.  Marvin L. Arrowsmith, Associated Press: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Eisenhower's one hundred and sixty-third news conference was held in the Executive Office Building from 10:30 to 11:00 o'clock on Wednesday morning, July 8, 1959. In attendance: 191. 
