 What I have to say concerns Secretary Dulles.  It concerns Secretary Dulles. I had a conversation this morning with him, and in view of the findings the doctors have made--yesterday--and which were not yet reported when I met him day before yesterday, he has definitely made up his mind to submit his resignation.  The formal letter of resignation will reach me in a day or so. I will then reply to it.  I want to make one or two things clear. The findings are not of the kind, so far as I am aware, that make him helpless. He is, nevertheless, incapacitated, so far as carrying on the administrative burdens of the office, as well as doing the thinking for it over there.  I am saying incapacitated for carrying on the administrative load, in addition to assisting in the making of policy. So I have asked him to remain as my consultant, and I will appoint him to some office that makes it possible for him to be useful both to the State Department and to me; because I think all of you know my opinion of Secretary Dulles. I personally believe he has filled his office with greater distinction and greater ability than any other man our country has known. He is a man of tremendous character and courage, intelligence and wisdom. Therefore my determination to keep him close where he can be useful, both to the State Department and to me and indeed in considering everything that may affect our foreign relations, I think is a very wise and proper thing to do.  With respect to a possible successor, no final decision has been made, and I will let you people know as quickly as this is practicable.  Now I believe there is no other particular additional information that I can provide, but if there are any questions on this particular subject, I would be glad to entertain any of them.   Wall, yes; I think I should say something about it. As you know, both Foster and I have kept in close communication on this matter. He has developed a team over in the State Department of which he is very proud and in which he has great confidence. And we believe that whatever the decision is, that there will be no damage to the, you might say, effectiveness of our presentations in the next conference.   I wouldn't want to say so at the moment.   I would say this: no matter who the appointee is, yes. He would be going to both, no matter who the successor. He would be going almost as a matter of necessity, I think, because he is familiar with it.   I haven't even thought of the exact status, but it will be on a consultative basis. As you know, in each department, and for me, there are allowed certain consultants, but he will be there on that basis. And this, by the way, is something that I know that he wants to do, as well as knowing that I want him to do it.   Well, I can just say this: it will not be long delayed. It will be a matter of days.   Well, there are a number of people, I think, in Government, or at least a few, who have particular talent in this field, and there are all kinds of considerations to be studied. And indeed, I shall talk--before I make final decision--to Foster himself about this thing. But I just don't want to imply either an intention to appoint a particular man or any refusal in that direction. Is there anything else, gentlemen?  I can't tell you how much regret I feel about this. I am quite sure that the United States will share that feeling. Goodbye, and thank you.
