THE. PRESIDENT. Please sit down.  I have no announcements. We will go right to questions. 
 Edgar has been criticizing me since I was five years old.  
 I appointed Mr. McLeod on the serious and earnest recommendation of Secretary Dulles, who is held responsible by me for the successful functioning of all our embassies. And when he recommended him, and did it not in a perfunctory way but in a very serious, direct way, which he does all those, I approved it. 
 Well, I haven't seen this bill, and I wouldn't want to answer just your last question in detail for the simple reason that each one of these cases presents problems of its own.  From the day I came in here, I have been in favor of getting the United States out of this business and have done everything I could to promote progress along that line. 
 I think we should have no bill that doesn't allow the United States to get out of this business. 
 Well, of course, I am not there; but I do have reports from Governor Stassen.  Governor Stassen says in his opinion we are now engaged in the most serious talks on disarmament, some partial disarmament, that we have been since World War II. He believes that the atmosphere is better and there is more indication that we are really, all of us, trying to get at some kind of a reasonable answer than we have been in the past. 1  1 On April 23, 1957, the following statement was released from Augusta, Ga.:  The President received from Mr. Stassen a review of the London talks. The President followed these London discussions with interest. He had arranged with the Secretary of State to have Mr. Stassen come to Augusta to give him a personal report.  The President encouraged the United States delegation to follow through thoroughly in the resumed negotiations which will start again in London on Wednesday.  The President re-affirmed that United States policy is, as stated by the Secretary of State in his speech of yesterday, that: "We consider that controls and reduction of arms are possible, desirable, and in the last reckoning indispensable. It is not essential that controls should encompass everything at once. In fact, progress is likely to come by steps carefully measured and carefully taken."  Mr. Stassen will return this morning to Washington to confer again with the Secretary of State prior to leaving for London later this afternoon from New York City. 
 Well, I wouldn't comment on the general policy. I will merely say this: we have no such plans. The particular plans that we made with Great Britain were announced as a result of the Bermuda conference, and that is the only plan of any kind that has been touched upon. 
 I can't answer that with the expertness of one who has been participating in these meetings.  Going on the information provided me by the Secretary of Labor, by the Secretary of State, and by the representatives we have had in the ILO, coming back to the United States and reporting to me personally, I believe that it is a very good mechanism for promoting our interests in the world; and I believe it should be supported adequately.  Now, I believe that yesterday or the day before the Assistant Secretary of State and Assistant Secretary of Labor both testified in favor of the $3 million bill. I can only say that I have to accept their judgment. 
 I haven't seen it; and my reaction, if I got it, was this: it is my responsibility to appoint people in the executive department. 
 Well, SAC would be used, of course, by the Defense Department in any place where they thought they could operate efficiently and effectively better than any other force. Now, when you get a picture of the great Strategic Air Command charging all over the world for little police troubles, of course, that would be entirely wrong. 
 Well, I would want to see the specific bill in its details, and I should certainly want to consult with my Secretary of Labor and a number of others before I took a positive view.  But this particular point has not come up until this time. What has been happening is this: under the Federal law, as it exists, certain States are allowed, they are not prevented from passing right-to-work laws, and we have merely said: "Please, Mr. State, look at this thing very carefully, and let's don't get a confused thing operating within your State." That is as far as we have had to go.  Now, what would happen in the event that the Federal Government wanted to take cognizance of this thing, I couldn't answer in advance. 
 Well, we have counselled both with Suez and Aqaba that, of course, people be prudent; in other words, they not try to bull their way where they are forbidden to go.  On the other hand, with respect to the Gulf of Aqaba, we have announced our readiness to join other maritime nations in a statement that we regard that area as international waters, and we have suggested that we will do so until the World Court rules otherwise.  So I should say that we would tell them that--and I never heard of a shipping company actually asking such advice--we tell what our policy is, and then they take the initiative in doing as they choose. And if they got in trouble, we would have to go to the World Court with it, I think, right away. 
 If So, I have not heard it. If there is any negotiator operating in details who has said that, I haven't heard of it. 
 No, we have not changed our policy with respect either to Aqaba or to Suez, I assure you. 
 Well, I think there are at least two pronouncements of the United States that apply in that area today. In 1950 or '51, I have forgotten which now, but it was called the May 25th statement, which was an effort to promote peace in the area as between Israel and the surrounding Arab countries, in which the United States joined with Britain and France in saying we would come to the aid of the victim if either were attacked; and, of course, that was in the context of the Israeli-Arab dispute. So that could apply in one type of case.  The other thing is what we call the Mid-East Resolution which permits the United States, authorizes the United States, to go to the aid of any nation which is attacked by a Communist aggression, and where it requests our aid.  Now, under either of those two, whichever applied, that is the way you would do it if it were attacked under the conditions that made either one applicable. That's all you can say. 
 At this moment his itinerary goes only as far as Ethiopia and Sudan; and I think the end of his tour will not be actually scheduled until after he has completed those trips. 
 Well, I couldn't overemphasize it. I believe that the job of explaining to the world what we are trying to do to keep our aspirations, our activities, straight before the minds of all our friends as well as others, we must not regard the USIA as a diminishing but rather somewhat increasing function of Government.  Now, I have told leaders that I have not any crystal ball that gives me an exact estimate of the exact amount that is necessary. But I do say this function is so important that I think cutting dollars here uselessly is about the worst kind of economy that could possibly be practiced. 
 I think our ambassadors are some of the poorest paid people in the world, considering what we expect of them. 
 Well, aren't you asking a question way ahead of time? The primaries are not over yet. 
 Well, that is a question that couldn't be answered accurately except with quite a long explanation. Of course, you must remember that Britain has been in consultation with all its NATO partners on this move for a long time; and everybody agrees, quite naturally, that Britain must have a sound economic base on which to build its forces or in the long run it is not an effective partner.  Now, as to part of your question, does this affect materially our own military program, I should say, no.  Now, while we are disappointed to see in this coming year 13,500 men taken out of Europe, still it does not, in our opinion, obviate the necessity for a shield in Western Europe; and, certainly, the compromise plan that was adopted and the phasing out of these people was in order to give the Germans an opportunity to fill that gap.  So I should say that the general policies and principles under which NATO was established and developed have not changed, and we expect the close cooperation to go ahead that has been characteristic of the organization in the past. 
 Well, you mean, are they taking out their 13,500 men too quickly? 
 Well, of course, I think General Norstad wanted them to delay it as long as they could, and that is the reason they are delaying it, I believe, until the end of the year instead of doing it at the first.  The missile arrangement that we made with Britain at Bermuda, I believe, was explained at the time. It was when, as, and if they are ready for issue. In other words, they cannot count on them until they are all operating perfectly and ready for turning over to them.  So I don't think that their planning represents a gap. There may be some gap occur in the actual strength available there-not a big one, because, as I say, they are delaying it in order to give the Germans a chance to fill it up. 
 Well, I probably would feel like everybody else does. I would rather see something more beautiful than a signboard.  But I would say this: when you come down to the right of the Federal Government to do certain of these things when it isn't actually purchasing a right-of-way that goes back to the extreme limit at which they want to put these boards, then I am not certain about it. I am not lawyer enough. I think you would have to go to the Department of Justice and find out what the law is.  I don't believe the Federal Government can just pass laws willy-nilly and have them obeyed in every State merely because we are buying, let's say, a 300-foot right-of-way through that State. So I think it is a very complicated question, and while I am against these billboards that mar our scenery, I don't know what I can do about it. 
 Refrain from using it? 
 Well, I don't--we have not counselled our ships--I think we used the expression they should be prudent about the thing--I don't believe we have told them they shouldn't use it. And I believe it is up to the individual shipping company absolutely, as I see it. 
 Under the situation then existing, he acted with my complete approval. He came to me before he did it. But, it was perfectly clear, the Budget so informed me, he so informed me, he didn't have the money to do it. Now, if you don't have the money in sight and they won't pass any deficiency bill, you can't do it.  The real argument has centered around the point whether he spent money too rapidly. He did notify and talk it over with a subcommittee of Congress in the last session, telling them what the carrying out of service at the then level was going to cost, in his estimation.  Now, all of that passed, that is a matter of technical details between the Post Office Department and the Bureau of the Budget, and the Comptroller General, I should think. But as far as the act he had to take when he didn't have the money, well, then, I stood by him in that completely. 
 Well now, as a matter of fact, I don't believe I understand your question completely for this reason: they don't make any money in the Mid-East. They make the money when they sell their stuff here, don't they? They certainly have to pay income tax on that. 
 Yes. 
.I will have to talk to George Humphrey about this one. I have never had--this is too 
 They are studying the matter now, and they will be communicating with the Canadian Government as soon as they possibly can. 
 Well, all we have insisted upon is operation of the canal under the six principles previously adopted by the United Nations.  Now, you stated something in your question that is not necessarily so, that we are about to do something. As you know, we, on our own, not attempting to speak for any other nation but for ourselves, and what we believe to be the general sentiment of the West, have been talking in Cairo for a long time.  We have not completely given up hope on those conversations. We think we have made progress, but it certainly is not yet to the point that we could say that we both are agreed that the plans developing will be within the purview and the limits of the six principles.  So while I do not deny that this thing might have to go back to the body in the United Nations with which the problem has already been lodged, still we haven't given up hope that some arrangement can be made. 
 Well, we are not talking about new legislative proposals. We are talking about certain of the problems that persist in our agriculture, regardless of all of the programs that have been tried since literally the beginning, or before the beginning of the war.  We have laws for the disposal of surpluses under a subsidized arrangement for which the taxpayers pay. Then when we get rid of those surpluses to a certain degree, the arbitrary provisions of the law operate: the price supports go up, and you get more surpluses. So you have in many ways a very, very difficult problem in this whole field.  Now, this Administration starts with this: we want to help the farmers who have been caught, as we call it, you know, in the cost-price squeeze for so long. This particularly applies to smaller farmers; and the problem is how to help them and not to go beyond reason, and at the same time not just continue to create new problems as you try to solve ones we now have.  At present you must remember that about half the income of farmers is from Federal subsidy. We are up to over $5 billion in our agricultural budget for the year, and I believe the amount they told me averages over a thousand dollars a farm family that the United States is paying in some form of subsidy; not all of that, I think, gets right into the hands of the farmers.  But the pity of it is that if the small farmers were getting their adequate share of that, probably the system would be working. But it doesn't work that way. The big farmers get the most.  So what we are doing is really looking over this whole field to see how you can best have an adequate program for the farmers, one that will stand the test of time, will be stable, and will not create new problems. 
 Well, it hasn't been brought up to me in that way, Mr. Wilson. It would appear that when funds can be used in a way that does apparently create scandal in the country, that then there ought to be some legal means of looking at these things in advance so that kind of abuse of the labor cannot take place. But I am not going to judge this case in advance, because I don't know anything about it. I am merely commenting on what the reports are in the papers. 
 Well, I have merely been told by the Labor Secretary they are watching this very closely to see whether we have any responsibility or anything we could do reasonably. 
 Well, I don't know about that, but I can tell you this: for looking for people in regulatory commissions we have normally looked to the States' regulatory commissions, and they are organized in sort of an association, and through their officers we have gotten the names of most of the people that we have appointed. I suppose that this isn't universally true, but it's been largely true.  Now, the regulatory commissions present many difficult problems, of course, because the people, in general, believe that they are under the President and he ought to be responsible for all their decisions and all their administration and their efficiency and so on; and, of course, we know that is not true.  I think they present problems, but I don't know of any particular way in which it can be improved. 
 I have heard about the bill and its general terms; I have not seen the bill. But I understand, I was told, that a number of my assistants and associates have seen it.  From what I can understand, it agrees in general with the criteria that I announced as necessary in a bill which I would approve when I vetoed the one a year or so ago. I repeat that what we have to do here is to look at the consumer's problem, both from the standpoint of a fair price immediately, and continuing supplies so that there is stability in the whole activity.  Incidentally, I am a user of natural gas myself, and when I pay $3.31 a thousand, and am notified it is going up 50 cents next month why I am very interested in this whole business. But I do believe that we do have to have a natural gas bill to bring about a fair, equitable arrangement in this whole field. And from what I understand of this bill, I believe its principles are those of which I approve, and that doesn't mean, of course, that I have seen it and approve every word of it.  Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
