 Please be seated, ladies and gentlemen.  The only announcement I have is that I have just seen word from the Czechoslovakian Government that they accept the American offer to assist the victims of the great Danube floods through their areas, and are ready to discuss methods of implementation.  Now, we will take questions.   Well, ladies and gentlemen, I knew when I once went into political life that I would be subjected by many types of strange characters to many kinds of innuendo and allegations.  In this case, I must say, I am a little astonished that any kind of such innuendo should include a private citizen of the character and standing of Bob Jones. I think there is no gentleman that I know whose integrity and probity I am more certain of than I am of his.  Now, as to my own actions, I am not going to defend myself, as I have told you time and again I shall not. I merely say this--of course I approved the recommendations for this action--every single official action I take involving the contractual relationships of the United States with anybody, except only when the question of national security is directly involved, is open to the public. Any one of you here present may, singly or in an investigation group, go to the Bureau of the Budget, to the chief of the Atomic Energy Commission, and get the complete record from the inception of the idea to this very minute; it is all yours.  Now, that is all I have to say about it.   Things happened so fast in that procedure, Mr. Clark, as to keep most of us, I think, a bit confused. I thought the bill as it came out of the House yesterday was satisfactory. Now I think all America is just a bit confused.  We recognize the Communist Party as a conspiracy and not as a political party in the accepted meaning of that term here at home. We think, therefore, it has no place on our ballots. But we are puzzled as to exactly how we do this and show the same concern, the same interest, in all of the civil rights of the individual citizen, whoever he may be and wherever he may be, that are required under our form of government.  So I felt that--any act that would tend to vitiate or to obstruct--the great work that has been going on in the FBI and in the Department of Justice under the authority of the Smith Act and the internal security acts should not be interfered with. I think the purpose of the bill that came out yesterday, moving to the outlawing of the party as such, made very sure that none of the work, the accumulated results of that work, under the FBI and the Department of Justice would be vitiated.  I hear, just before I came over here, another amendment has been enacted in the Senate. I don't know its exact language, and I can't comment on it. But I thought the one that came out yesterday was generally satisfactory from my viewpoint.   Well, in January or February of 1953 instructions went out to the 7th Fleet. Those instructions regarding the defense of Formosa merely reaffirmed orders that had been in force in that fleet since 1950 Those orders are still in force. Therefore, I should assume what would happen is this: any invasion of Formosa would have to run over the 7th Fleet.   Did you say it has been suggested? It had already been suggested?   Oh; I hadn't thought about it.   As a matter of fact, I think you could approach such a question from many different angles. Let me give you one.  War has unfortunately been a phenomenon of the life of every generation in our whole history. One of the reasons for this preparation of which Mr. Wilson spoke is to give the individual maximum chance for survival, not only through fitting his own efforts in with the joint efforts of the Nation so as to insure victory and, therefore, promote his chances of survival, but in the actual combat, learning how to take care of himself and what to do to make himself a better individual.  So I would say, as a matter of general philosophy, with the world in the state it is, that some form of military training or related training for every individual was an advantage to him and to the Nation.   Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of those questions that I would rather not discuss in any detail.  I suppose most of you know that from the day I was sent back to Europe in January of 1951, I had the task of working for EDC. Because of the prejudices and the tensions that prevailed in Europe, I came to believe it is the only process by which Western Europe can possibly get together on a reasonably effective basis to protect themselves militarily and to support the kind of units they should have.  Certainly, it was the only way I could see that Western Germany can be brought into such a concert of nations without creating, well, such additional tension as to upset the whole equilibrium and, therefore, destroy the object you are seeking.  So, at this moment, when again it has been brought forward by a French Premier, I would not want to express myself too positively on any particular one of his proposals.  I merely say this: there has been a long legislative process that has been gone through by other nations; and if proposals would be so drastic that each of those nations would again have to enter an entirely new process, then I would say it would be quite serious. I do not believe that that would be the purpose of the French Prime Minister.   As to the exact timing of the execution of that contract, I believe that is a point that has never been brought to my attention.  But I do know this: the new chairman, I believe, is to take over on the 1st of next month. As I think I told you people once before, he has only one instruction--to do his honest best to find the facts there and to make his recommendations according to his own professional training and what is needful in the region.   AS I have so often explained, the plan that went to Congress, the farm plan, was made up through consultation with every single farm group that we could get hold of.  There was one farm group, I recall, that never agreed really with any part of it; it is not as large as the others. But the main farm groups, representatives of the agricultural colleges, of actual farmers themselves, people who are most experienced both legislative-wise and executive-wise in the governmental phases of this thing, were brought in. So, from my point of view, the majority--I am certain that the majority of farmers in the United States support the bill as a whole; although, I suppose, it would be true that in each district you could possibly find a majority that might object to some specific feature of it.  But the bill is not merely one feature; it is a very broad and comprehensive program designed to produce markets and to get supply and demand back into our farming problem.   Indeed I will. I don't believe I have yet gotten stupid enough to believe I am so smart that I know all of the answers in advance.   It hasn't been brought up. I haven't had a conversation with my military advisers.   I could speak, I am sorry, only by impression; it is one that I think I should prefer to speak both to the Attorney General and to the AEC chief before I would give you a definitive answer. I will try to do so through Mr. Hagerty before I get away from Washington.   I am afraid you are asking me to be a little bit too accurate in my legal interpretations this afternoon.  I will say this: I don't believe in monopoly; and if that is permissible or encouraged by that act, I would want to take another look at it and decide what to do.   Well, it happens that this morning I was on a plane, and I read a little article by W. I. Myers from Cornell, you know, dean of agriculture from Cornell.  He says business, he believes, will have an upturn this fall; and he says he believes it will be of a character that won't lead us into any inflationary process, but it will be a good healthy upturn.  So far as I can determine, and I do not want to quote anybody else, the mass of opinion from the experts seems to be that we are in a general mild upswing.   I thought that my entire itinerary for the fall had already been published. Hasn't it?  Mr. Hagerty: Not quite.    Well, as a matter of fact, I know of no reason why it should be secret. I think that I promised that the second that it is fixed--I suppose there are still one or two tentative dates on it; but I have no plans, so far as I know, to go south.   Well, so far it has merely been in the conversational and discussional stage. No specific recommendation has come to me at all.   No, I have not made any.   Well, there still are some measures before the Congress which, of course, I would like to have out. There is the reinsurance bill; there are certain parts of the Social Security Act; there is the Renegotiation Act; of course the farm bill has not yet been enrolled and brought up.  But I will tell you what I am doing: I am hoping to leave this city at 9:30 on Saturday morning. Now, if I am too optimistic, why, I will have to give you notice when I find that out; but that is when I am hoping to go.   I am to--[confers with Mr. Hagerty]--I'll tell you what: I am coming here to address the American Legion, and on the way back I am to stop at the Iowa State Fair for a matter of an hour or so, something like that.   The 30th of August.   Thirtieth, isn't it? Mr. Hagerty: Thirtieth of August.   Yes.   No, I think probably it would have to be done from Denver next Monday or Tuesday night, Wednesday, something like that.   Well--  --Mr. Donovan, I don't want to cross up my staff. I promised that when they get these plans fairly well in line they will announce them. Now, that does clean up the August dates, doesn't it?  Mr. Hagerty: August, yes.   All the August dates; that is all of them. The 19th in Illinois with two appearances, the 30th coming back here and then going on to--   And back to Denver; and then, of course, this talk in Denver early next week.   Well, that wasn't in the bargain, Mr. Wilson, but I will tell you this: from all the questions that come to me about such things, I just assume they are going to be. I just don't see any other--[laughter]   Surely I do. After all, they are my associates here, I work with them; I like them.   Well, Marty Snyder, as you say, was a sergeant in my headquarters; he ran the headquarters mess.  So far as I know he has been a fine citizen. I don't know anything about him before that moment. He was a good soldier. He certainly got it in his head early to try to make one Eisenhower President of the United States, and stuck with it, and possibly thinks he is a bit responsible. Maybe he is.  Now, I would deduce from that that he would be a loyal supporter if he were down here.   Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
