 Please sit down.  It's been quite a while since I visited with you. And one of the latest incidents in my own activities was my visit to Panama, which I would like to mention briefly.  It was a unique sort of visit, as you know, one from which I personally felt I derived a tremendous profit of knowledge and understanding, and I am certain that the other heads of state there did the same.  It is the kind of meeting which I am convinced could with. benefit to all be held, not often, but at reasonable periods.  Of course, it's always awkward to arrange a meeting like that to which heads of states can go.  I understand that now, guests of the State Department, here this morning are a number of reporters from the Latin American countries. I want to assure them of my personal and official welcome to them, and I hope they have a fine time in our country, and learn something of us, as I know I did of Panama.  I think we shall go to questions.   Well, to answer your last part first, I said very little, because Mr. Stassen didn't come to me for advice. He came to me to tell me what he expected to do.  As you know, I firmly believe in the right of any American citizen to express his own political beliefs and political preferences as he chooses. This applies to me as well as to the Vice President, and the Vice President has assured me of the same kind of thinking himself.  Now, Mr. Stassen having said that, I assured him that that was his right as far as I was concerned, but he had to do it as an individual, not as any member of my official family, that he had to make that distinction very clear.  A little later I think he found--I am speculating a little--but apparently he found that he had stirred up more of a storm than he had anticipated. And he came to me and said in order to carry out his purpose of separating his efforts from the administration and from the White House, he wanted to ask for a leave, which I personally thought was a wise act on his part, and I promptly approved. He is on leave and will remain on leave as long as he is working for this.  Now, as to my feelings about it, I say my feeling is he has got a right to express himself, as any other American has.   Well, Mr. Folliard, I am not exactly sure what you mean by "committed yourself."  I have expressed my opinion, in front of this body, of Dick Nixon so often that I think there should be no doubt about my satisfaction with him as a running mate. But I have also said I am not even nominated yet; you must not forget that. And I do uphold the right of the delegates to the convention to nominate whom they choose.  I believe I once said here if any man were nominated as Vice President that the President felt he could not, in good conscience, run with, he would have just one recourse: to submit his own resignation.   I think it is open.  Mr. Nixon himself said to me that the last thing that he hoped anyone would consider was that this was a cut and dried affair and that we were trying to foreclose the delegates their right to choose whom they please. He said that in my office within the last few days.  I think I made myself so clear on this subject time and again, that there is really nothing more to be said about it, that I can add to it.   I haven't made any up yet. But I might say a little further to that question, if I did I would not by any manner of means ever give it to anyone except on the most confidential basis, because I certainly would not be drawn into the great error of saying I would run with this man, with this man, with this man, and finally get to someone and I said, "No, I would not do it."   I haven't any idea.   No, no one ever proposed to me that I dump Mr. Nixon. No one, I think, would have that effrontery.   Well, I haven't any source of information, Mrs. Craig, that would allow me to make a positive answer to such a thing. But this is what I do have: as you know, I have sent the Vice President on innumerable trips; and from every country, both from the people, the citizens of that country, and from Americans in the country, I have received only the most glowing reports of his acceptability while there. Now, that's all I have on it.   I am not going into comparisons at all.   Well, with respect to this Congress I have more than one emotion. In certain respects I was highly pleased. In some I was most regretful; and in some I was frankly disappointed.  There were essential parts of the program that I had laid out in my state of the Union speech that were enacted into law. For that I was highly pleased, I was grateful.  There were other parts that seemed to me were handled in such a way as to delay their enactment for a long time: the farm program, the road program, which I wanted to get busy on; and I regretted that delay.  There were other parts that we didn't get at all, particularly some of them that applied to human welfare. For example, we didn't get the school program. We didn't get reinsurance for sickness, that sort of thing. There is a whole list of the things we didn't get, which I could have the press section give you in detail. But it is one of those human things--you are never completely satisfied, I am sure.   Well, I don't mind telling you this much and, of course, I mean as far as I know, I can tell you everything on it, but I don't know everything.  Like anybody else, my condition has to be determined for me somewhat by the doctors. As far as my feelings are concerned, from the day I was operated on--and you must remember I was having a pretty rough ride there for 2 or 3 day--from that day on I have improved every day.  Now, the doctors warned me at that time it would be certainly 4 months before I would feel myself, would really want to go play golf, would really want to do the things I have been accustomed to doing. But as far as I know, I have improved every day, and I have nothing that keeps me from going ahead and doing my work.  When I get home one of them, my personal physician, comes in, looks me over, and says I am in good shape.  Now I feel good, but I don't feel as well as I did a year ago at this time.   Well, of course, the conditions aren't the same. You see from the convention of 1888, while it recognizes that the concession itself will run out in 1968, that the Suez Canal will always be an international waterway, free for use to all nations of the world in peace and in war.  So the conditions aren't quite the same. Right now the great problem is to make certain of the continued efficient use of this great waterway whose importance is not confined to the neighboring countries or Europe; but, indeed, it is vital to our economy and to our future welfare.   No. As a matter of fact, they warned me that I should have a little of that and I never did. They remarked on it several times and I never did.   Well, I don't know, Mr. Wilson, because people go by many different guides with which I am not familiar.  But I can say this: he certainly didn't seem to in 1952, and I can't believe that the United States does not consider that Mr. Nixon has made a splendid record as Vice President in these past 4 years. Now that's--   I don't oppose any poll. I see they are made all the time. I don't think it makes any difference whether I oppose them or not.   Well, again, I don't believe it makes much difference. I think they will probably have one anyway, don't you?    Well, at that time, you remember, I mentioned Mr. Nixon myself because he was then occupying the position, and I thought it was only proper and appropriate that in front of such a body as this that I should express my complete satisfaction with him, as I would about Mr. Humphrey or Mr. Folsom or anybody else in my official family.  Now, when you go beyond that, we begin to get into a field which I don't care to venture because eventually I would be doing somebody an injustice.   I have, certainly, given it consent.  Remember this though, none of us is conducting a campaign for anybody.  Now, Mr. Stassen, as I understand it, says he is going out to conduct a campaign; that is a different story.   I think that is a question--as Mr. Morgan says, there are certain of my personal likes and dislikes I can keep to myself.   Well, I don't know that I have any personal objection, but I understand they had one this morning. I didn't know anything about it, but they had it. So--   Well, it was some place; isn't that true? Some of you must have been there.   I told you I would not go beyond Mr. Nixon in this regard because he now occupies the position, and did occupy it when I made my statement.  If I go beyond that, inevitably I am called upon to comment on someone whose name has not been mentioned, but where I might have reservations. So I am not going to comment beyond that.   Well, you must remember this: when you're hurting like I was at that moment you don't read the papers, so I didn't know how much renewed interest had been stirred up in this thing.  As far as I was concerned--this is what the doctors told me-I was suffering from a chronic ailment that had probably begun some 30 years ago--this was after the operation.  You see, the difficulty I had was a disease of young people. I believe I am the fifth case that is of record where anybody 65 years old ever had this. All they said was they had corrected a condition that existed with me for a long time, and I was going to be a lot better. So it never occurred to me there was ever any renewed question.  I didn't begin to have any of this period of indecision you talk about, or doubt, until I got out and read the papers. I have told some of you people at times about the so-called Battle of the Bulge. I didn't get frightened until 3 weeks after it had begun, when I began to read the American papers and found-[laughter]--how near we were to being whipped.  Well now, this had a little bit of that same thing, because I had at that moment no question on my mind. I was merely being improved, not hurt, except that I did hurt physically.   Mr. Nixon was in my office about 3 days ago. We had a long talk and, of course, we mentioned it casually. There was no point in making it a great matter of debate. Mr. Nixon, like myself, considers this anyone's privilege. I believe it was the day--well, I don't know, I am not going to guess on what day it was--but it was a very casual and not an important conversation on the matter.   I didn't make a request of the kind you suggest on Ambassador Cooper. I told him that my reports were that he would make a strong candidate down there, that I would like to see Republican Senators from the State of Kentucky, but that he was doing a good job in India, that he could keep it as long as I was in this position. I just wanted him to know how I felt about both these points, and he could make his own decision.   Well, sir, I would tell you, frankly, I don't think it is too important to the individual how his end comes, and certainly he can't dictate the time.  What we are talking about here is the importance to the country, and it happens that at this moment the Republican Party apparently thinks I am still important to them and to the country. Since I believe so much in the Republican Party, and I believe that it needed rebuilding so badly--an effort which I have been making, as you well know--I said I would continue to try.  This is a decision that the American people are going to have to face. I am flattered by what you tell me about my friends and neighbors at Gettysburg, but I have made up my mind this is the thing I should try, and we will see what the American people have to say about it.   No. You are telling me something now that I didn't know. As a matter of fact, it is one piece of legislation I was disappointed was not passed, and I don't know the reason lying behind it.   Mrs. Carpenter, I believe that anyone that stirs up racial hatreds, other antagonisms that are based upon race or religion or differences in basic philosophy--it is always a mistake. It is a very grave error and a disservice to the United States. Extreme statements of this kind can do no one any good.  The path of human progress is not along the path of hatreds; it is not along the path of the extremes. It is along the path that represents the road where people of good will and real sensibilities can get together and say, "Here is a way we can go together."  I deplore, just as earnestly as I know how, every kind of thing that you describe. I didn't know actually it was going on at such a degree to create comment, and I am sorry.   Well, you have a right to conclude what you please. But I have said that I would not express a preference. I have said he is perfectly acceptable to me, as he was in 1952. But I am not going beyond that because in 1952 I also put down a few others that were equally acceptable to me. So I see no reason why you draw the conclusion, but you may if you so choose.   I have never heard of such proposal made on any serious basis.  On the other hand, I recall 'the 1953 effort to produce a changed attitude toward our defense services, to stress new weapons, to stress the modern means of delivery of fire power, and to minimize, so far as we could, the use of individuals who could better be employed in building roads and schools and other things necessary.  Now, that same thought has been pursued around the world. Only in the last few months, we have seen the Soviets announce their determination of cutting strength; but it certainly is not with any idea that they are cutting their total striking and defensive power.  So I will say only this: I would hope that we can progress in this direction of substituting power, speed, mobility, flexibility for just men, men taken away from their homes and serving in the armed services.   I think that is all I have to say.   As Of this moment I have none.   Well, so far as I know now, and from the knowledge I have, yes, for the simple reason that Mr. Stassen undertook one of the most difficult, sometimes frustrating, but certainly tedious tasks, and has pursued it earnestly, rigorously, and is trying to do things that very few people would have the patience, the intelligence, and really the courage to do.  I have been very delighted, and one of the reasons that this whole episode sort of disturbed the even tenor of my ways was that I thought "Well now, here is a month that he won't be around." But, as he pointed out, Ambassador Peaslee did carry on his job while he was over in London for 6 or 7 weeks, and there was no reason why he could not do it for 4 weeks. But I think Mr. Stassen has done a very splendid job in the task that I have given him.   I think the exchange of letters tells the whole story.   Well, I am not going to commit them to anything until I talk to them about it. I have never discussed with them the possibility of having a press conference; and it is indeed possible that since it was an operation from which a period of convalescence is essential, they may say there is no reason for having one; but I would certainly want to talk to them before I committed them to anything.   Well, of course, I never publicly mention the substance of messages received from heads of other states and governments or the substance of my replies.  Now, the only thing I can say is we are manifestly faced with a very grave issue, important to every country in the world that has a seacoast, and maybe even all the rest. So it is something to be handled with care, to make sure we are just and fair; but we must make certain that the rights of the world are not abused.   Well, so far as I know, my answer is I have no doubts.  Now, I have only 20 more days before the convention--and I wouldn't expect any great change in that time.  As I said before, what I have is this: the prognosis of the doctors and the constant improvement I have experienced.   Well, I think that certain parts of them were unwise and, therefore, I regret them to that extent--one of the things being that we are loading on the security system something I don't think should be there, and if it is going to be handled, should be handled another way.   Well, there are only four cases, as I told you before, in which they have a record, and they say in none of those four, I believe, was there ever a recurrence. I mean four cases in a man of my age. That is about all they have told me.  Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
