 Please be seated.  This morning, instead of an announcement, I have a little request. I hope each of you will speak very distinctly because I am having a little temporary difficulty with my hearing.   Well, you know, it is an awkward time. We have had this Mid-East situation on our hands for a long time; and while it has gone through certain stages and the outlook is brighter, there are still many details daily that come up and, as you know, the Secretary of State had to leave for Australia yesterday, the Vice President is out of the country; so it is rather awkward to go at this minute.   Well, of course, that is one of the reasons that I have directed such a careful review of the entire budget. With this cost of living continuing to rise, it is necessary we all watch our spending to the utmost degree.  Now, for every purpose that was provided for in the budget, I still am in favor. In other words, I don't believe in abandoning any project that the United States requires for its own welfare and the good of its people.  I do think that we can vary the speed, and the investigation I am now making through the Cabinet and other responsible officers is to see whether some of these can't be slowed up in order to reduce our spending and take that much pressure off this rising curve of which you speak.   I don't mind telling you, no.  For a good many years the doctors--because I traveled so much and all around--have always had me on a particular water, the name I forget. I think it's Mountain Valley, as I remember.   Bottled water; I have drunk it for years. I do drink tap water here at home, but that is just because I figure it is just as good as the bottled water.   I know that.   Well, I'll tell you, in the White House I drink it often, very often.   That was in the contempt cases?   I'll tell you, you are asking a question now that I think is so legal in its character that you ought to go to the Attorney General. While I have talked about it a little with my people, I don't know really enough about it to discuss it well.   Well, I would have to be guided by my lawyers because they get into legal quirks that I don't know anything about.   Well, I think that every time I have gone to the Congress, even before I was President, when I was in other capacities, and in my messages since, I have asked for some flexibility in the handling of these funds, contending that there would be greater economy and efficiency out of the amount spent. And I believe that thoroughly.   Excuse me; a little louder, please.   I don't think you can take substantial cuts there and still support the welfare of the United States and the world.  I think we asked for 4.4 billions, of which about 2.9  1  as I recall is for military assistance. They are plans to which we are committed, and about 1.5  1  for all other, and if you were interested enough to read my inaugural address and the several messages I have addressed to the Congress, you know how greatly I believe the free world is depending upon some intelligent economic development in these underdeveloped areas.  1  The correct figures in brackets were supplied by the White House immediately following the close of the news conference.   No, not at all. That bill was finally passed, wasn't it, 72 to 19? I don't think you could ask on such a subject for a very much greater majority. I was definitely pleased.   Well, I don't think, Mr. Roberts, that I have to go into the constitutional argument again. I would point out that I haven't spent my life in the study of constitutional law.  I do think the legislative history of this resolution shows that the Senate approves--the Congress approves of what we are trying to do in the area, and that is the important thing.   Well, so far as I am concerned, it feels like a cold in the head; that is all.    Oh, yes; yes.   Yes, temporary, or something.   I have never authorized anyone to say what I was going to do or not to do in the event of the passage of a certain bill, not even my closest associates.  Now, many of these people, some of them very good friends of mine, know what I believe, know the things for which I stand very firmly, and those things of which I disapprove. So, what I assume--I hadn't heard of this incident of which you speak--I assume what these people were doing--were giving their calculations or their estimate of what I would do; but I have never authorized anyone to say such a thing.   Well, of course, none of these proposals will affect me personally. By the time they become implemented, I will be doing something else somewhere.  Now, so far as I am concerned, the White House is too much a symbol, to most Americans, of what our country means for it to be abandoned as the residence of the Chief Executive. I would oppose that, I think, as a matter of my citizen's convictions.   A little louder, please.   Yes. I did talk to him, and I think Mr. Dulles was asked the question a day or so ago in his press conference, and he answered it.  We have studied this very earnestly to see how we could secure from China more news without appearing to be accepting Red China on the same cultural basis that we do other nations, and it is one we are still studying.  I can't offer at this moment any change in policy. I merely say we keep examining it.   Well, as I say, of course, we are going through an intensive study; and, remember this: long before this budget ever went to Congress I gave orders for the kind of study that is going on now, has been going on, and will continue to go on; that is to find out whether it does represent the minimum in services and programs that the United States requires.  Now, as I told you, some of these, I think, can be slowed up. We don't have to pursue them in the same speed at a time like this when everybody is contesting for the dollars, everybody is contesting for materials, because of a very great prosperity in the country. So the effect is to drive up prices. The Government should, to the ultimate of its ability, cut back.  Now, there may be here and there some program that doesn't occur to my mind right now, that might be abandoned. But I think what the Secretary unquestionably meant is the slowing up and not taking them with the same speed that we were considering.   Well, I hadn't heard that the appropriation was in danger.  Of course, I am in favor of the games. I believe that the pan-American games will do a very great deal to further what has been a very definite objective of every President that I know of for the past many years, which is to solidify relationships with all of Latin America. This continent ought to be drawn closer together.  Now, I am not going to speculate now about the appropriation because it hasn't come to my attention. But it was my understanding that about that sum was needed as our contribution to make these games a success.   Well, as you know--yes, I do believe that it is necessary to modernize the White House, and that is the reason, after the Heller report, that we asked for the Commission to study the thing.  I would think that it ought to be a perfectly disinterested, objective study made, and one that can command the respect of Congress, and not made from any personal or subjective viewpoint at all.   Well, I didn't mention my health. I mentioned I have had some trouble hearing.  I have had a rather stubborn cough that comes from some irritation in what the doctors refer to as the trachea. Now, that cough has continued until apparently I have caught a little cold with it, and that has affected my hearing. Although the cough is better, my hearing temporarily is not good.   Well, actually you are giving me some news, and I haven't any prospective vacancy in sight that I know of-where my mind would turn to.  I want to make clear I admire his qualities; I think he is a very fine American, and if I had a suitable post, I have no doubt that his name would occur to me, but it hasn't at this moment come up.   No, I wouldn't speculate at this moment on the size of it. I can only tell you exactly how we are approaching it, what we are doing. These--  I will tell you a little bit of an amusing story. I had a letter from a friend of mine out West, and he was very much upset about the size of the budget. But it happened in the last, very last, paragraph of his letter he mentioned the drought, how long it had lasted, and what was I going to do about it--that he thought this was getting pretty tough. So I answered his letter and told him that I agreed with him in his concern about the budget, but asked him now which was the important part of his letter, his request or his criticism. And he just sent it back and he said, "You've got me there," and laughed.   I believe I said, unless my memory serves me false, unless there were a contrary finding by the World Court.  Now, the Gulf of Aqaba, as you know, is from 12 to 19 miles wide, I believe, and the straits, themselves, the Straits of Tiran are narrow. But on one side is one country, on one side the other. So we stated we were prepared, with other maritime nations, other principal maritime nations, to declare this an open, an international, waterway, and so use it.  Now, as to the exact details of how that is done, Mr. Reston, I would have to wait until I consult with the State Department to see exactly what the steps were, but that is exactly our opinion at this moment.   Well, once I had a chance to look at what they have done and what the situations of the two are, I wouldn't mind giving you an opinion. But I can't this morning because I would be talking absolutely without having studied this question one second.  I would say this: I am for equal treatment for all Americans by the organizations to which they belong, as well as by Government, but I would have to take a look at this subject.   No, I think you had better go to the Secretary of Agriculture. Some of those things listed may be actual facts; but, remember this: our surpluses were being accumulated under the old 90 percent of parity, because the new law didn't go into effect until 1955. So I would have to take a look at the whole situation before I would want to comment on it.   No, I wouldn't want to give a personal appraisal. I merely would point this out: that from the beginning, the Secretary of State and I have insisted that the mere solution of one or two preliminary phases of the problems that were brought about by last July 26 did not solve the underlying causes of the difficulty, and that we thought the United Nations ought to address itself to those difficulties to see if they could be solved.  Then we introduced in the United Nations resolutions which we were hopeful will bring something about.   Well, I would doubt that there is anyone here that really feels the United States ought to try to stand up above the world, flex its muscles, say "I am the policeman," and go everywhere and try to compel people to follow its own dictates, to include its form of government and everything else.  We voluntarily joined an association which is to further international law and to secure peace with justice. As long as we can operate through that organism, we should do so; and in spite of all its failures, and in spite of its admitted weaknesses, I think that it would be well for all of us at times to look on some of the things it has accomplished. After all, it does mobilize world opinion, and nations are still very sensitive to world opinion.   Speak a little louder, please.   All right.   Well, I don't know who selected Cleveland in the first place. I assume it was a pan-American body and I certainly wouldn't want here to say that I will alter their decisions.   They did? Well, it is one I would want to look at. I would have to know every detail on that before I would want to make any statement.   Well, of course, these people, on the basis of their own study, have made certain specific conclusions. I think grant aid should be held to the minimum, but there are instances where grant aid only will help, and I don't suppose they intended to eliminate those.  Now, the report, although I have read it hastily, is now under intensive study by the staff, and I wouldn't want to comment on its specific provisions throughout until I have the benefit of their study.   Well, I know she is coming in to see me today, but I don't know about what, and this is the first time I have heard any suggestion that she was interested in any way in a Government post.  I am just told by Mr. Hagerty she is coming in to discuss more active participation by women in the Republican organization.   I have never spoken to anyone since 1948 about our international problems in that area that I didn't start it off with this, "We must recognize that Israel is an historical fact, it has got to be dealt with, and its problems are those of any other nation."  There is no question in my mind that would cast doubt on that statement, and I have said it to everyone, not merely to the King.   No. In their general terms, which was that I felt that the minimum wage should be extended to those firms where they had over a hundred employees and more than $1 million gross business a year, those general terms, I approved of them, although I admit that there might be some exceptions shown where they would not be applicable; but that is the general program which I endorsed.  Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
