 Good morning. One or two little items that may be of some interest:  First, I hope you will allow me to welcome here a group of press people, press representatives, from the NATO countries. I assume that among them are people I have met many times before during my travels about Europe; anyway, I am glad you are here.  I saw some rumors that the Government was intending to increase the interest rates on these Rural Electrification Administration loans. That is not true.  I told you last December that there would soon be two divisions returning from Korea, if there were no great change in the situation. We expect that very soon the 45th Division will start back, and a little later on the 40th; two National Guard Divisions--the 45th largely from the Oklahoma area, and some other units in it; and the 40th from California. I think the first one will be here in the middle of April, and the next one about the middle of June.  It gives me an opportunity again to pay tribute to these National Guard units who keep themselves organized, their staffs and commanders trained in time of peace, and ready to operate in an emergency. It is part of our reserve element and, of course, very necessary.  As you know, under the law there would normally come about soon a half-cent reduction in the Federal tax on gasoline. You also know in the statements already made that the administration hopes to keep that half-cent tax in order to push the good roads program throughout the United States. In the past, not all of this money has been put out on road construction in matching funds with the States. We hope to do it with all of it, and if we are successful, it will increase the Federal participation, I think, by some $225 million on a matching basis with the States.  There is a Cougar Dam on the McKenzie River. There is a little statement that has been written about it, a very short one, and you will find it outside when you go out. It was merely a statement because it more or less exemplifies the thing we have been talking about quite a while, participation by local communities, municipalities, States, and so on, with the Federal Government in these great developments when such participation is feasible and possible.  Now, that covers the few little statements I had, so we will start with questions. 
 Well, I think, first of all, it is quite apparent that I am not very much of a partisan. The times are too serious, I think, to indulge in partisanship to the extreme, and I quite cheerfully admit that there must be Democratic support for the enactment of certain parts of the program. I believe Senator Knowland has often described himself as a majority leader without a majority in the Senate, so it is obvious that if these things are to become law there will have to be some support from the Democratic side.  This one thing, I believe, I can say without appearing to be pontifical or particularly "stuffed shirt" about it: we have, and I have, tried to desperately draw up a program that seems to me to be good for all Americans, which includes Democrats. I don't expect any Democrat to support any program because he happens to be a friend of mine--and I have many friends among them, as some of you would know. I have tried to put out a program that is good for the United States, and it is on that basis that I appeal for help.  I know of no way in which the Chief Executive could stop this kind of thing except among the members of his own executive family, and I must say again that in this region, I have my own doubts that any great partisanship displayed by members of the executive department is really appropriate in this day and time.  Now, there have been from the beginning of parties intemperate statements. They have been hurled back and forth. We seem to survive them and they seem to roll off the backs of political people, after the first flurry is over. I am often amazed when I read some of the statements that were made about Washington even before there were political parties. If you will look up and read what was said of him in his second administration, where they called him a tyrant, a betrayer of the people, a seeker after a gilded throne on which he wanted to establish a royal dynasty, and so on, these things have been going on a long time.  I don't believe in bitter partisanship. I never believe that all wisdom is confined to one of the great parties; and I certainly have never, in general terms, criticized the other party, that is, to include its great membership.  I believe there are good Americans in both parties, and I believe that the great mass of both parties is fundamentally and naturally sound. 
 You say that is what's been going on? I have seen no such statement; but if any such statement is made, I would consider it not only completely untrue, but very unwise--I mean even from a political partisan standpoint. Who would be so foolish as to call all of another great group treasonous to the United States of America? After all, they fought for America. 
 As I told you last week--I believe I told you last week, didn't that subject come up? I said we had increased the technical side of the training units you send out there. I forget the technical name for them--the training and administrative units that turn over the equipment, and so on--MAAGs, we call them. We have increased that. Now, recently, some of our equipment shipped to Indochina has involved airplanes, and they just didn't have the people to take care of them. So we increased that particular body by some airplane mechanics, who are to be returned from there no later than June 15th. 
 No, they are not only maintenance troops, but I see no opportunity of them even getting touched by combat. 
 That is correct. 
 Well, I will not comment on anybody's statement as such. I will not engage in personalities, and I think I have stated my position quite clearly as to what I think. I believe this: I believe that the ordinary American is capable of deciding what is temperate and just in fact, and what is just indulging in language for no good purpose that I can see. 
 Who.? 
 I not only had not been informed of it--[confers with Mr. Hagerty]--I am just told, for the first time that I have heard about this, I am told by Mr. Hagerty that the bus driver was instructed to go around to the door by which I entered, and he refused to go around to that place. I hope there is no connection between those two facts.  But anyway, that is just what I have been informed.  I would say this: if that choir was barred by the reason that you seem to fear, of anything about race or of color or anything of that kind, I will be the first to apologize to them. I just don't believe that could have happened. 
 I have nothing to say on it except to repeat what I said a long time ago. I believe it was before one of our conferences: I am not going into any State and I am not going to participate in local contests. I think that as President I have really no right to do so. 
 I don't think I heard you start the question. 
 I think it would be possible to mislead and, to a certain extent, frighten the country; not into a major depression, I doubt that. But I do believe you could have a recession brought about by such statements. On the other hand, I have in the past few months noticed statements that were attributed to at least people of more than one party in this respect, and I believe I will comment on that no more than I have. I don't want to violate my own ideas of fairness. 
 I wouldn't without taking a look at it. I don't recall the question and I don't recall my answer. But I just believe that the procedures of these conferences have to be observed rather closely or they will become something other than what they are. I hope you don't want me to come in here and begin to think of my grammar and rhetoric and all the rest of it in answering your question, so I would want to take a look. 
 I would just say this: no one could be more bitterly opposed to ever getting the United States involved in a hot war in that region than I am; consequently, every move that I authorize is calculated, so far as humans can do it, to make certain that that does not happen. 
 Well, if there is, I haven't seen it. Now, I don't want to answer your question with just a fiat "no" for this reason: as you know, the mail all comes to a great place and it is sorted and segregated and I get my portion of it. I have seen none of it; but I would say and repeat again: I look for brains and ability where I can find it, and if I can find it among the women, I would certainly like to see one of them around here, in one of those important positions. 
 Well, only in this way: there had been certain of the funds withheld apparently, maybe because the States didn't match them. I am not quite sure of all the facts, but we do hope to step up this program from around $675 million to about $900 million.   Isn't that correct?  Mr. Hagerty: That is correct.  THE PRESIDENT. That is correct, about $900 million. 
 The amounts are not programmed, except as I spoke of the tax, the cent and a half excise tax, as opposed to two cents. 
 The $225 million would be in addition to the one and a half cent yield. You would get a 2 percent yield, which would altogether run about.-- 
 AS a matter of fact, I have forgotten the item that the Federal budget itself said. I don't believe we gave a specific figure, exact figure, on that, because I thought it was dependent on the amount collected by the tax. I will look up the point and tell you about that. 
 Well, so far as this system gives any relief at all, it goes to every section of the country without exception, provided that the conditions are met. They are, in my mind, very strict conditions. If they are met, why, they would go to Detroit as well as any place else, I suppose. 
 Well, I have had my say, in general, on this whole business of amending the Constitution. As you know, I have no official role in the amending of our Constitution. When an amendment is approved by two-thirds of each House, it goes to the States, and that is that.  Now, as to the procedures that they follow down there, I will leave it to them. I am not going to participate in that. 
 Well, as you know, my position was always that there was a certain--normally kept in section I--that no agreement, no treaty, can be in opposition, or if it is in opposition to the Constitution, have any effect.  I have always thought that was the amendment that would reassure the American people, and nothing else was really necessary. I have examined many, many versions, and where they don't seem to transcend that purpose, in substance, I have not objected. That is all. I have just objected to those things that I believe would hamper the President and the State Department in carrying on the foreign relations of this country, or where there would be an upsetting of the balance of powers established by the Constitution. 
 To the what? 
 Oh, yes. 
 Well, the figure that they gave me this morning was 250, and I was merely trying to be conservative.  I don't know exactly what the amount is. 
 Well, as a matter of fact, I came in here to talk to you about a principle based on a 1/2-cent tax; I don't know exactly what the figure is, and I can't be expected to know. Now, I am going to look it up. 
 Well, by organization they don't control it at all. What the President's responsibility as head of the party requires is that he devise a program that is in general conformity with the platform of his party, and that he do his best to get it enacted into law. I think that would be the simplest way to state his major party responsibility.  Now, all parties are organized for business purposes, as you know, in a very detailed way. They head up into the Chairman of the National Committee, and the Chairman of the National Committee is never appointed, as again you well know, without consulting the President as to whether such and such a man is acceptable to him in that position.  But as far as actually directing the affairs of that body, he has no official position whatsoever. 
 Yes, I would. 
 Wall, I am not going to try to predict the drift of world events now and the course of world events over the next months. I say that I cannot conceive of a greater tragedy for America than to get heavily involved now in an all-out war in any of those regions, particularly with large units.  So what we are doing is supporting the Vietnamese and the French in their conduct of that war; because, as we see it, it is a case of independent and free nations operating against the encroachment of communism. 
 Well, I have not heard of this statement you made, and I should like very much to see and talk to that individual before I speak further, because I make no charges.  I do know this: we try in every significant event that takes place in our international relationships to inform the proper people in the Senate and House--leadership, chairmen, and so on--before we do it, so that they know what's going on. There is no attempt here to carry on the affairs of America in a darkened room.  One thing we must never forget: in the touchiness of today, everything you do has certain risks. Even when we try to give some food to some starving people there was risk in it--we were warned that there would be the gravest consequences likely to follow from such a thing.  Everything you do has its certain risks. Knowing that, we try to keep people informed; and if someone told you that, well, it doesn't agree with my understanding and, therefore, I would want to talk to that person. 
 Well, to star with, the answer to that is simple: with respect to the appointments of personnel, you never make a statement until the appointment is announced. You never make a statement about such things; so I am sorry, I can't comment on it. 
 He just came to ask that certain friendly talks that were going on between us be resumed, and I agreed instantly. 
 I don't think my approval or disapproval here is needed, and I am not going to comment any further on that. Particularly, I have said many, many times that I am not going to talk about anything where personalities are involved; I will not do it. 
 These things are now separated on the Hill where they are still under discussion. I think rather than star a debate in this body on the same questions, I will wait until they decide; then, if you want to ask me a question again, I will talk about it. 
 What? 
 I hope to spend next Saturday out of this town.  I hope that I will get a chance to go shooting.  As you know I went to Europe; I haven't been shooting for 3 years, and I want to see whether I can hit a quail, if that is possible. If I go, I shall go to Secretary Humphrey's farm down in Georgia. That is still hopefully in my plans. 
 You have raised it, and I will let you discuss it.   Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
