 Good morning. Please sit down. I have no announcements of my own.  Well, I have no judgment at this time because the evidence, so far as I know, is in the process of bring concentrated.  The Attorney General, for a long time, has been watching the situation, getting everything to see if there is any reason for taking any action.  Now, we should remember this: the only function of the President in a thing of this kind is to appoint the man. He is appointed to a term and the only way he can be removed is for cause, so therefore I assume that would be by a trial of some kind.   Well, I wish it were reduced, but--no, I don't think it has at all. This is the first time I even heard such a suggestion.   Well, again you are bringing up a thing I have not heard of; but I will say this: there are a number of cases that come under the CAB that the White House must act on. Any time that they refer or have anything to do with the foreign routes that CAB has authorized, or refuses to authorize, then the President himself is required to make the final judgement. And, very naturally, my staff would want to get any additional information that I need. So, I would assume it is so on that case.  I don't want anything more about that.   I asked someone that question last evening, because I forgot it, and I wondered why it hadn't come up. I think maybe I should check up.   Let me get this whole subject in perspective.  Now, in the first place, so far as my immediate official family is concerned, it is my responsibility to appoint them, select them, and the only relationship the Congress has to that process is that the Senate must give its advice and its consent to the appointment. Therefore, for any group of Congressmen, either informally or formally, to raise a question concerning my appointments to the Cabinet would not seem to be in order.  However, let's go to the substantive part of this matter: the purpose of all farm programs from the beginning has been the hope of getting for the farmer parity in costs and in price. None of those governmental programs has ever been completely successful, and many have been tried.  We, of course, want to provide governmentally for insurance against the advent of disaster to farmers by reasons beyond their control. By and large, this administration believes, certainly I believe, that we are going to be better off the more we can free farmers from regulations and the more they can participate in their own activities in the farming industry under the general influence of economic forces that apply to the rest of the economy.  Now, Mr. Benson has been trying to find ways and means that we can proceed in this way so that the opportunity of farmers to get their parity in prices and in costs will be greater rather than less.  On top of that, I feel that Mr. Benson is a man of acknowledged courage and honesty. By "honesty," I don't mean only his personal habits and practices, a personal matter; I believe this: I believe he is honest in his great effort to find proper, reasonable, sensible programs that can be recommended by the Congress. He has organized advisory committees, some of them legislatively authorized, from people from both political parties, from all parts of the Government; and generally speaking the programs that he has established have had the full approval of these outside committees.  Now, I think this: when we find a man of this dedication, this kind of courage, this kind of intellectual and personal honesty, we should say to ourselves, "We just don't believe that America has come to the point where it wants to dispense with the services of that kind of a person."  Therefore, I think the people that are advising and recommending this kind of thing are badly mistaken.   Well, first of all, I think you are a little bit in error when you say we would say that the administration would consider a tax cut to be a last resort. I think I talked about that matter one other time here. I have no doubt that in special cases Dr. Saulnier--after all, I was at that conference myself yesterday morning with the legislative leaders--Dr. Saulnier has a particular personal thought, as the Bureau of the Budget can; but when you come down to the measures that are to be approved for federal action, there is only one person that makes the decision, and that is the President.  Now, with respect to your new starts, of course there will be new starts. There are new starts that are already approved, with money appropriated for them, and those new starts we will take on. But in general, new starts will not do a very great deal for bringing people back to work quickly. There is always preliminary engineering work, surveying, boring, soundings, every kind of thing where only a few specialists are working.  But you can take projects already in order, and in process, projects that the Government wants to get done, and, as I pointed out in a little talk the other morning, this is a kind of a time to press them, to accelerate them. Now, you can accelerate them much more easily than you can these newer types.   No. I thought I was--it is possible my wording was not as accurate as I had hoped, but it meant people not in official governmental positions, so it could not be called a Summit meeting between ourselves. I was talking about leaders of thought, and not those people carrying official responsibility.   Well, I brought out long ago, I think after my first illness or certainly quite a while back, that I think this is something that Congress should take action on; and I personally think it probably requires a constitutional amendment if it is going to be clearly corrected.  Now, in my own case, because I think between Mr. Nixon and myself there is a rather unique state of mutual confidence and even liking and respect, I think there is no problem; because I think Mr. Nixon knows exactly what he should do in the event of a Presidential disability of the kind that we are talking about.  And so, I have got my own conscience clear at the moment, but I still think it should be handled as something for all future cases.   Not a word, not a word.   Well, I remember when we went into it then, we wanted to have it a minimum of 26 weeks, and even possibly that lengthened; and I think you quoted that correctly at least, as far as my memory goes, up to 50 percent.  Now, that matter has not been brought to my attention recently, and I would want to talk to Secretary Mitchell before I did go into it again.  Well, you suggest it to him, will you? He'll come to see me, and then I won't have to remember.  Well, I think I would prefer not to discuss it in detail, but I do say this: there is one very great difficulty about just making a flat agreement for cessation of testing, even if you could conceivably detect all of the tests illegally made, and that is this: we belong to an association for which we have great respect, NATO; and some of the nations there are in different states of producing the weapons that require testing, and we would have a difficult time, I think, under the present laws, to make an agreement with them that would be binding on all of the NATO countries, and certainly we would want it to be so.   Well, a tax cut is, of course, a possibility if there is any deepening of the depression that requires it. On the other side, let us not forget that we are asking for enlarged sums in every single thing that we are doing. We are asking for the greatest sums in our history for all public works. You take Agriculture; the Bureau of Reclamation, the Corps of Engineers, their total is the highest of our history. Our peacetime budget for defense is greater.  Now, if you are going to have this kind of expenses, you have got to try to get some money in your purse to pay for the bills. And certainly you don't want to go into a tax cut until that is necessary to bring about the upturn.  Now, as I pointed out, there certainly are some indications that there will be more job opportunities in March--some increased job opportunities, probably not great, but some; and if that occurs, we believe it can mark the beginning of the end of this recession.  I have never said, as some papers have noted, that March is going to be a critical state in which there will be quick upturn or even a gradual upturn in the economy. It will take some time to stop the recession, even though you finally begin to note certain phases as beginning to wane. So I would say that our situation, certainly we hope, by mid-year is going to be along the line much better.   No. No, there has been this about it: a number of people in Utah have stated that they would like him to be back whenever he could come, but they always want to know whether he is useful to me, and my answer is "Yes."   No. It has not changed my mind on the merits whatsoever. That, to my mind, hopefully, is an isolated incident that will never be repeated.   No, I haven't. I have not even thought about it. As far as my personal participation, I haven't thought about it.   Well, I haven't done anything about it at all yet. As a matter of fact, I don't know exactly the tests when this practice would be wise; and I haven't talked to Admiral Strauss exactly as to that particular matter.   Well, it is undeniable that confidence, a belief in ourselves, individually and collectively, is a very important feature in the degree of activity you normally anticipate in our economy; and if we have the courage, if we have got, you might say, the widely held determination to move courageously, there is no question in my mind but that it would be helpful.  Now, whether or not a campaign for bringing about this kind of confidence is the best thing, I haven't thought of that as a public relations problem that has yet come to me. But let's not forget, above all things, the need of confidence and that, of course, I think nationally. It is what do you and I think of the prospects; do we want to go buy a refrigerator and do something that we think is useful and desirable in our families, or don't we? It is just that simple, in my mind.   Well, last evening, of course, I was speaking about mutual aid; but I did seize or make the opportunity to make as great a favorable statement as I could for mutual trade.  I said it was one of the iron imperatives of security and peace. I believe that. And as this campaign or this struggle goes on, whatever I can do is going to be done, because I cannot believe that anything would be more damaging to us in this country, and in this world--I mean when I say "damaging to our country," to our own economy, as well as to our international relationships--than to attempt to withdraw commercially, economically from the rest of the world.   No. Well, I don't think I could talk, Mr. Brandt, specifically about the subjects of a conference.  He came in to make a call and present his credentials, and I found him, as far as his mannerisms, his attitude was very friendly, and he did talk in a general way about some of these subjects but he covered the water front very well, for the simple reason that I wanted him to stay there to get in my own mind just what he seemed to be thinking.  He talks English well, and he seemed to me to be individually a very friendly person. That's about all there was to it.   I really cannot do it, for this reason: I had Mr. McElroy in, I think yesterday morning, for a brief moment, but he is trying to have a final conference here to get his ideas crystallized so he can bring them to me. And I think we have a conference with Mr. Coolidge, who is his executive director down there, in a very few days, maybe this week.   I don't think that is really an answer that I should give, for this particular reason: if I have, then probably you would want the letter, then you would want to see whether my grammar is correct and all the rest of it. I say this: there is such a clear understanding between Mr. Nixon and myself, an understanding to which others around me are completely privy, that it is inconceivable, that is between him and me, that any misunderstanding could occur.   As I recall, and I hope my memory on historical events is not too faulty, that for the first time we had a Republican majority favoring this bill, and a Democratic majority against it.  Now, if that is an erroneous statement, I will apologize the next time I meet you.  Well I haven't seen that request, but I do say this: in spite of my great confidence in any individual, I would be wrong if I had shown any tendency to surrender my mind to one of my friends and to be sort of an automaton for him. I have used my own judgment in details, but that does not affect in any degree my great confidence in Secretary Benson. Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
