 I have nothing of my own this morning, and we will go right to questions. 
 Well, I have no feelings at all about a particular situation or technicality of which I know nothing.  I am perfectly ready to put myself on record flatly, as I have before, that in America, if a man is a party to a dispute, directly or indirectly, he does not sit in judgment on his own case, and I don't believe that any leadership can escape responsibility for carrying on that tradition and that practice. 
 No. You have the regular--I don't mind. You can go and see Mr. Hagerty as usual on that particular point; but if every time I say something I am to be quoted, why, I will come over here with written answers. 
 OK. 
 Well, I haven't any late and detailed report on it. What I do have is a statement that they have had great difficulty in trying to streamline procedures in accordance with the prescriptions of the act itself, as passed, and to get the thing rolling.  It has been reported to me they are striving to do so. I would hope that this logjam loosens up very shortly. I will look it up again. 
 I don't recall the exact words. I implied and indicated that March would normally be a rather significant month, that is, a month when normally, seasonally, there is an upturn. I don't believe I said that instantly there would ,be programs set, I said there would be a new examination of the problem and it would cause real concern.  It is difficult to talk about this question without taking a little bit more time than just a "yes" or "no," ladies and gentlemen.  Coming out of a war economy, going back into a peacetime economy, has traditionally caused, in every country, very, very marked fluctuations, sometimes marked by great inflation, lowered productivity, all that sort of thing.  What has been the task that has really been going on for quite a while, but especially since last July, has been trying to make this transition, with a cutback on all kinds of war production, ammunition and everything else being used in Korea, in such a way as to cause the least damage.  There has been, of course, a continuous rise in unemployment since that time. The figures for March are, of course, not all in, and they won't be in until sometime in early April.  A contributing cause here, they tell me, although I am not so sure of the effect of this one, is that Easter being late, the ladies have not been buying as rapidly as they normally do this time of year and all kinds of qualifying conditions enter into this thing.  The only thing that I am sure of, up to this moment--we study this every single day of our lives, there is a conference in my office on this subject every single day--there is nothing that has developed that would call for a slam-bang emergency program being applied at this moment. That doesn't mean that we are not watching everything.  Many things have been done. There is easier credit, there is cheaper money, there are things of that kind; there are housing and building programs before the Congress which should be helpful.  There is every kind of thing constantly under consideration that we can think of that would be helpful. But we just don't believe this is the time to move on an emergency basis; because if we do, we could easily distort the picture very badly. 
 I think there have been several times when we have discussed exactly what this word "satisfied" means.  I truly believe that the rounded program sent to Congress represents a crying need in the United States. I believe it will insure its progress; I believe it will insure an upturn in the economy; I believe it will insure greater prosperity and happiness for all of us; distribution of inescapable burdens and a stronger America, which is, after all, the ultimate goal.  Now, the longer we put that off, to my mind, the more we are failing to take advantage of our opportunities to do what we should. 
 Of course, you are asking a question that we can take the rest of the time on. I would say only a very few things.  One, I don't believe that it is necessary to argue the importance of all this great southeast Asian area and the southwest Pacific, its importance to the United States and to the free world. Indonesia, our friends in Burma and Siam and Malaya, the Philippines, all in that region, it is of the most transcendent importance.  This fighting going on in Indochina, no matter how it started, has very manifestly become again one of the battlegrounds of people that want to live their own lives against this encroachment of Communist aggression; that is what it is.  With respect to Communist China, at this moment, in the forthcoming conference, I haven't much to say. I have expressed certain of the reasons why we took the attitude that we do toward Red China, and until those conditions have changed, there is no change in our attitude or our situation. 
 Well, I will tell you, I wouldn't give you a positive answer that that is a good thing to do.  I do believe this, that entering the atomic age, you people have legitimate questions--and all America and possibly the world--affecting this whole development. You have a right to ask them at places, specifically to me or the White House or other places, when information can be given without definitely jeopardizing the security of the United States.  I shall try, after Admiral Strauss comes back from the Pacific, to review this whole question with him again and determine, if we can, what is the scope or the limits of the things of which I can talk. I promised this last week, not realizing, I guess, at that moment that he was a long ways from my side. I want to put off any further discussion until he comes back. 
 Now, Mrs. Craig, you are talking about something that I won't talk about. I am not going to say what I consider, except I do consider myself a military man in that respect, and my lifetime was spent in it. I am not going to try to give an evaluation of the one kind of a base as against another at this moment. I don't think it would be wise at all. 
 I will take a look. I haven't heard of the bill; I will take a look, because I am not sure. I would have to consult the Attorney General and see what he says about our authority there. 
 Well, it is extremely difficult unless you are on the spot.  I have talked to a number of people. Frankly, the odds that are just given in numbers, the comparative odds, the attacker against the defender--if you had a well-chosen defensive position, I would say the odds were all in favor of the defender.  Now, I suppose most of you have looked at the map, and you know this position is in the valley astride a river; that it is not too long. With some 21 battalions, I believe it is, they are trying to defend a position that is completely dominated by the observation that the attackers have on the two ridges, the ridges on the side of the river. So that makes it anything but pleasant.  Some of you here were unquestionably at Anzio--that was after I left Italy, but I have gone back to that battleground--and there all the Allied Forces were in an almost impossible position.  They were lying on the plain, and the enemy had all of the observation positions to place all the artillery where they wanted to, and it is a terrible thing on morale.  So, I think one of the things, one of the intangibles, that you would have to be present to evaluate is what is the effect of this continuing situation where they are getting shot at all the time and don't believe they are shooting back effectually; what is that effect on morale?  Now, there is no need to tell you people that followed battles in the war, morale is everything. So long as a unit thinks it can win, it can win; but, of course, many things go into making it up.  I would say right now, as I see it, there is no reason for good troops to despair of coming out of the thing all right. Now, it is not an easy one.  By the way, I asked one specific question you might be interested in. I find there is a colonel commanding the unit, and he was put there because apparently he is a very brilliant commander. I said, "Well, if I were the commander in the field, and I had a colonel commanding that thing, he would have been a general the day before yesterday."  In any event, there is apparently a very brilliant, fine, young soldier commanding the place, and doing a gallant job, and they did promise to put my remark on his record after it came out. 
 Well, they are doing something about it. They have a group that is checking every single new installment of statistics to try to figure out what these things mean, and are going to adopt the one that is the most accurate--I think that is the broader one. But to get adjustment between the two, it is going on right along.  I think it is unfortunate that the thing happened to be put into effect when we did have a rise, and when we are also rightfully concerned with rising unemployment and, therefore, it puts an element of confusion in the thing that wouldn't normally be there. But they are working as hard as they can to get it straightened out and to produce the honest facts, that I assure you. No one is trying to be clever about this, but to get the straightforward facts. 
 Face-saver? 
 I think that they flatly said that I had no decision to announce because I had reached none, and that is the absolute truth.  Now, the other two items that you heard, so far as I know, are also the absolute truth. 
 You start off with a statement of which I am not presently informed.  There are certain types of files that will never be released by the executive departments. The FBI files are inviolate, and are going to remain so as long as I am here.  Now, if there are other kinds of files--they tell me they do forward certain summaries and factual information, as long as it is fact; I don't know exactly how it is done--it is a question you might look up and provide the answer for, Mr. Hagerty. I don't know enough about it to talk about it further. 
 Well, I explained to you last week one type of emergency in which a commander in chief would have no recourse, and that was when you were directly under the kind of thing, in a glorified way, that happened at Pearl Harbor. But I believe that the Prime Minister answered one part of your question very accurately, yesterday, when he said we had all the arrangements for instant consultation that could possibly be made and, particularly, with respect to any use of the bases there. With other of our friends in the North Atlantic Alliance, particularly those we work very close with--Canada, for example--we are always in consultation. 
 No. Many times, I told you, I don't know enough about the specific case to comment, even if I should. There are certain things that the leadership and the people down there cannot escape responsibility for, and I am not going to try to prejudice the case by commenting on details of which I know nothing. I state my principle on which I stand. 
 I have no comment whatsoever. I would say again you are talking about something that certainly is strictly the Senate's business. 
 No, I haven't made up my mind about it. As a matter of fact, the question has been reopened for study, but I have not made up my mind to keep it open. 
 It is quite clear that this time something must have happened that we have never experienced before, and must have surprised and astonished the scientists. Very properly, the United States has to take precautions that never occurred to them before.  Now, in the meantime, I know nothing about the details of this case. It is one of the things that Admiral Strauss is looking up, but it has been reported to me that the reports were far more serious than the actual results justified. 
 I have expressed my thoughts before this body time and again, and I am sure that there is no one here that is really mistaken about what I mean and what I have said. If there is, you can bring the question up next week. 
 So far as I know, they have got it scheduled for its place in their program, and I am not going to ask them to upset a whole program of work.  Frankly, I think the House has been doing an awfully good job. No one has asked me about it, but if you would like to ask my opinion about the tax fight the other day, why, I would say I think they did a magnificent job. They did it for the good of the country and, I would say, with a minimum of concern for their own particular welfare or ambitions.  They did it because they thought it was a fine program. Of course, we had some few, thank goodness, Democrats who felt the same way about it; but I think the House has been doing a fine job. I can certainly ask when they expect this to come out, but I have the minimum of criticism for the group. 
 Well, I will ask. I hadn't thought of it. I think rather than comment on it right now, I will take it up, I will say that. So the discussions will include that. 
 Well, I said I recommended it; I don't know whether I recommended it to-- 
 I said I thought it would be a good thing to do. 
 I told it to a Frenchman who promised it would be put on his record. 
 Well, I didn't see General MacArthur's statement afterward, but he and I have been very closely associated since 1930, and I have never found any talk with him profitless. We talked about the general conditions in the Far East, where he spent so many years of his life.  We talked over general situations, implications of various things that we saw in our reports, and it was not intended to reach definitive conclusions or plans or anything else. It was merely an exchange of views from an old friend; that is what it was. 
 There has been no definite decision on it. As a matter of fact, I didn't know about the Supreme Court decision you are speaking of this morning. 
 Then I am glad you brought it up; I would like to make it clear. After all, all of us know that the rules of the Senate differ from those of the House; possibly because the House is such a large body, they have to have firmer disciplinary control.  But in any event, let us remember this also, that all revenue bills have to start in the House. There the extensive hearings are held, which often helps to shortcut the work in the other House.  I was asked a question about the House Rules Committee, I wasn't asked about the Senate. Now, they have to have a little more time, as we all know. 
 Well, I don't think I have any comments. As you know, I know the Generalissimo, and I like him.  When I go there, or when I have been out in that region, I like to see him; but I don't know anything at all about what I should say or what comment you would expect from me now. I really don't.  Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
