 Good morning. Please sit down. In the scientific field, I have two or three announcements, the first of which I will read, although the document will be in mimeographed form and you can get it after you leave here. This one has to do with forthcoming tests.  In line with what I said to the press on July 3, 1957, the United States will demonstrate the progress our scientists are achieving in reducing radio-active fallout from nuclear explosions.  To this end, for the first time at any test, we are planning to invite the United Nations to select a group of qualified scientific observers to witness at the Pacific Proving Ground this summer a large nuclear explosion in which radio-active fallout will be drastically reduced.  We will also invite--as we have on occasions in the past--a representative group of United States and foreign news media correspondents.  The United States scientists have been making progress in reducing radio-active fallout from nuclear explosions in the hope and belief that basic advances in both the peaceful and military uses of nuclear energy will thus be achieved. The advantages to mankind of continued progress in this field are obvious.  The United States has always publicly announced in advance its nuclear testing programs. We trust that the forthcoming tests will provide valuable information to the world.   Now, the next statement is about another document. There has been prepared by my Scientific Advisory Committee a paper that is called, "Introduction to Outer Space."  1  This report, in my opinion, is the most interesting and fascinating thing in this field that I have seen, and I want to make it available to the entire public. frankly, I am hopeful that all publicity media will find it so interesting that they will give it the widest possible dissemination.  1  See Item 57  Then, I wanted to make this final statement: I expect to send up shortly recommended legislation providing for civilian control and direction of governmental activities incident to civilian space programs.  As I say, that report will be--is that to be this afternoon or this morning?  That one you will get this afternoon.  The first one that I read is the one you will get this morning; the other one will be ready this afternoon. That's all.   Of course I can't tell what they will accept, but we are hopeful that the United Nations will designate the Scientific Committee for Detection, I believe it is, of Radioactivity--that's about its name. On that committee are U. S. S. R., Czechoslovakia, the United States, U. K., Canada, and a few others. As a matter of fact, Mr. Hagerty can give you also the entire list of nations.   Mr. Hagerty wants me to read the full--the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, that's the name of the committee.   Well, Of course, anything is a possibility. As we have been reporting from time to time, they have undergone a long series of tests and I don't know what they will do, of course.  So far as we are concerned, we have been perfectly honest in stating exactly what we expect to do. It has been many months ago that we announced our spring tests; and we have always stated that when there was any reliable agreement for stopping tests, and particularly when this can be connected with elimination of manufacture for weapon purposes, that we would be quite ready to go with the thing.  I don't know anything about the possibility of their making a statement.   Well, sir, I have tried to be very accurate in what I had to say about it. I have never excluded the possibility that there might come a situation where a tax reduction would seem desirable.  At the same time, I think that every thoughtful person, certainly that I have met and this includes leaders from both parties, views this step or possible step with such seriousness that they are not going to be stampeded into doing it. As a matter of fact, I believe the Secretary of the Treasury has conferred with leaders in the Democratic Party, with the result that we have agreed to do nothing except with bipartisan consultation, at least notification of intention.  All sorts of difficulties arise with the possibility of tax reduction. Most of you have been aware of some of the anxiety voiced by our people for larger and larger military appropriations. Those appropriations by '59 will be very considerably greater than they are now.  There have been all sorts of other proposals for expenditures that will swell national budgets if all of them are approved.  So, in any event, there seems to be the prospect of very greatly increased expenditures.  Now, if you recognize that any tax cut is bound to increase the gap between revenues and expenditures, realizing again the seriousness of large and continuing deficits upon our whole fiscal and financial system, then you will see that this is not something to do lightly.  I do say that we are watching every development as closely as we know how. We try to get advice, information, counsel from every phase of our American life, and we are certainly going to do those things we think should be done; but we are not going into a tax cut or any other what we believe to be unwise program that can hurt us badly in the future. We have got to think of the years to come as well as the immediate month in which we are living.   I didn't understand the question correctly--feasibility?   Mr. Roberts, as I have told you time and again, certainly I believe it would be unwise to take a perfectly rigid position in respect to any of these things where any agreement would seem to be a reliable one, and would seem to be opening the door to wider and better negotiations with the Soviet Union.  Now, I have not only had many conferences with Dr. Killfan, but with others in the scientific world about the feasibility of detecting tests.  While I think there is certainly a little field for uncertainty, and some differing opinion, I think that by and large for any sizable test of any kind, if it didn't go way down into the, you might say, fractional kiloton, that the tests ought with proper inspectional facilities, seismic and electronic, and so on, that they ought to be detected.   Well, that is a very difficult guess to make, you might say.  This is what I am trying to do: I am trying to maintain a position that I think is conciliatory, that will reflect reasonableness and logic and truth as we see it.  Now, we simply, as I see it, must not by going to a Summit meeting appear to accept every contention that the Soviets are now making. In other words, we must not tacitly say "Yes, we approve of everything that they are now saying as possible subjects for conversation." It isn't necessarily true or acceptable to us. As I say again, we must be careful to prepare these meetings properly.   Well, Mrs. Craig, yes, I have read it often, read about it, discussed it, and frankly I do not believe in the Brannan plan.  Now, I do say this: with our surpluses, I believe that we could find better ways at times such as these of using our surpluses better. And we are doing this more generously and more freely at this moment. But I just don't believe that you can get such a program as this, and work it in our country and keep farmers free.   Well, I think there are many factors that would imply that the bottom is certainly close, or possibly even now reached. But we have gone through these factors, about the strength of consumer buying and many things of that kind. I don't see any need this morning for going through all of them. My own feeling is we are going through the worst of it right now.   Well, I am always intrigued by prophecies of what I shall do and how I shall do it.  Now, the bill that we have now is still under study. I've had many conferences with my people, and action will be taken soon.   Well, right now, if you can take beef at over 30 cents and pork, over 20, and call it surplus, you'll be doing something. I don't see how you can do it. I don't see how meat can be in surplus.  Now, as to methods that there may be for feeding the hungry, after all, one of the things that I am attempting to do by this extension of the benefits of unemployment insurance is to take the burden off the States for what they have to do in assistance within the States and, therefore, give them more opportunity to take care of people that are not taken care of by an extension of this kind. I believe--did I sign that this morning?  I believe it is either down today, or on the route.  But I agree with you, something should be done for people that are hungry, but we must not just always say that it has got to be right square here from Washington, that we are going to send this and that. We must do our part, respecting the responsibilities, the rights of the States, and if we do our things in that formula, I think we won't go too badly wrong.   Well, now, just a minute. Intensification of federal activity can mean many things, and certainly I would have to know exactly what you were proposing before I would believe it to be legal and proper and desirable.  Now I have preached, since the day I came to this office, and long before, that we are going to solve some of these great internal social problems of the United States of America by reason, by education, by tolerance of the other fellow's views.  I do not believe that all of these problems can be solved just by a new law, or something that someone says, with teeth in it. for example, when we got into the Little Rock thing, it was not my province to talk about segregation or desegregation. I had the job of supporting a federal court that had issued a proper order under the Constitution, and where compliance was prevented by action that was unlawful.  I had to do that, and that is an entirely different thing from me starting out new laws for attacking this basic problem, which I again say is not going to be solved finally until it is done by understanding and reason.  Now, on the other hand, with respect to your reference to the Commission, surely it has had a hard time getting off the ground. We had to give it, you might say, a loaned budget, but I have great hopes for what it will do in both these fields, watching and seeing what are the legal difficulties that occur, as well as what can be done in helping to get things done in what you might call the educational and even, indeed, the spiritual field.   I have a very fine answer for you. If you will just read again exactly what I said in my special message, I think it was in late January, on labor, you will find exactly what my views are.   I have no change in the views that I have already expressed, but I will tell you this: by no means do I fear the results on America of a visit by Mr. Khrushchev.   I think I explained it rather thoroughly in connection with my remarks on tax reduction. I think that we have got to be very, very careful of what we are doing to this economy over the years as well as just looking at the immediate difficulties in which we find ourselves; to fail to do so, to my mind, is merely to bring on again a difficulty that could be even worse. We can compound difficulties here. So, I can run through again for you all the things that we have put down on paper, the recommendations I made to the Congress. They are numerous, and I think mostly they are reasonable, but I do believe that if we go frantic on this, like some people wanted to do on Sputnik, we can be doing the wrong thing.   Well, I'll tell you, we tried a little bit, but you can't do it. for example, the housing bill now before me was first started off at $2.9 billion; and now we have got one item in the housing bill, $1.5  that means, as far as I can see, just right square out of the Treasury as quick as they come in and recommend that the Government purchase these insured loans. So you just can't tell what is going to happen until we are further along in the session I think, as far as the amounts are concerned. But I do think this: it would be futile to believe we could keep the amounts down to what they are now.   Well, I really believe it is their hoped for effect upon the world at large. By saying these things, by seeing in the papers what they purport to mean, they believe they are getting the world convinced that Russia really wants peace and negotiated agreements that are sound and practical and fair to both sides and enforceable.  Now, that is what they, it seems to me, are trying to get over. Now, when you take ourselves, and we try to analyze these things--remember, we are handicapped by the attempt at least to observe fact and truth why sometimes our answers may not seem as convincing; and if they think they are getting a propaganda advantage, there it is.   Well, I'm not going to answer that question directly for the simple reason I don't want yet to discuss the details of any such proposal before you until I believe that necessity is here.  But I will say this: I believe that the American public now should be buying on the basis of the worth of the product that is offered to them. I believe that there is a great field for expansion of business by better salesmanship on the part of business concerns. I believe we have got great savings, I believe that we have got to offer things in a better packaged way, we've got to do better advertising; and above all things let the public buy when they think they are getting a bargain and not worrying about what is going to be some possible future action.   Well, the only amendment I can think would be more useful was that you could go back to 50 percent above the 1934 tariff levels in order to protect a particular industry when there was clear evidence that it was being threatened.  Now, I don't know of any other amendment that we have thought of, and I don't know what you could be thinking of.   Oh, you mean direct, some kind--  Well, whatever you can--   Well, there, of course, there have been all sorts of things suggested even to the degree of assisting a small industry that wants to go into something else, and giving it federal help while it gets going on something that's more profitable for it, and all sorts of things. None of them as far as I know have been written into legislation, but there is, of course, all of this concern about the so-called depressed areas by giving greater intensity to your procurement efforts in those areas, wherever you can. Everything of that kind has been done that I know of, but the idea you are now propounding, I don't   I would have to take a look at it.   Well, I would say that Secretary Dulles and I confer by telephone or personally at least 5 to 6 hours a week, more than that if you would count both Cabinet and National Security Council.  Before he made his statement yesterday morning, we talked for, starting the afternoon before and for the morning, another considerable period. I wouldn't guess its length  Now, if there are any great differences between Secretary Dulles and myself, I am unaware of them. I have told you time and again I believe he is the most informed and wisest man in the field of international relations that I know, and I certainly have no great differences with him.   Did you say you have seen that or did you just--  The only thing I can say is this: I have always refused in advance of any primary or of any selection of Republican candidate for any office to intervene in any way, and I wouldn't want to be used either directly or indirectly in such a campaign. Marvin L. Arrowsmith, Associated Press: Thank you, Mr. President.
