 Ladies and gentlemen, one word that we seem to find in our daily print more than any other is "Communists"--struggle against communism and Communists in our country and in our Government.  This job of finding them is a day-by-day job 52 weeks a year, has to be conducted without cessation. So, this morning, I called upon the Attorney General to give me a record of statistics to date, what they have done, what has been accomplished in the past months.  They gave me the report under nine items--I should have said this is printed, you will get all of this document; it will be outside, and you will get it--and I think it is an impressive list of accomplishments, and all of it done in absolute accordance with the due processes of law.  A few days ago the Attorney General also, at my direction, prepared a statement with respect to Executive responsibility in maintaining the proper and constitutional division between the authority and responsibilities of the Executive and the Legislature. At my direction, Mr. Hagerty published that.  Now, that constitutes the last word I have got to say on this subject, unless something happens that makes me think I have to say something more--I don't know what it would be--but it is my last word, and I repeat to you my reason: I can't conceive of anything more important to the United States today than the enactment of a legislative program that comprehends the great needs and requirements of all our people today so far as the Federal Government has a hand in them.  As you know, that program is very broad; it touches on such things as workable farm programs, reformation of the tax system, foreign trade; up and down the line there is health, there is housing, and there is social security.  It is a very broadly based program, and positive action in that direction is the thing to which I am going to give my exclusive attention. I am going to talk to everybody I see, to you people every time I see you; I am going to talk to the public, I am going to talk to everybody in Congress that I get a hold of, because I so thoroughly believe that this is a must requirement for the United States. When I say that, I don't mean to say every detail or procedure and method and timing; I hope I have sense enough to know that the democratic process requires the meeting of minds and composition of different ideas in order to get things done. I am talking about the spirit and the broad purpose of that program, and that is what I am going to give my attention to. And I will say, ladies and gentlemen, it's very little use asking me questions that don't apply rather directly to that and, of course, to the position of the United States in the world today, that is, in the foreign affairs field.  Now, with that statement of my purpose, why, the meeting is yours. 
 Well, Mr. Wilson, I haven't seen those statements, but every possible line of action that could serve the interests of the United States and of the free world is explored daily, all the time, constantly by our staffs--our military staffs, our State Department, and other staffs that have responsibilities in this line; and, of course, such things as that occasionally come up, but I have not, by any manner of means, reached any decision of that kind. 
 I haven't any idea of what he was speaking of in the word "compromise."  I have always insisted that the basic purpose of any reasonable program is to prevent violent fluctuations in the situation of the farmer. I would be the last to claim that there is anything sacrosanct about the program we put forth, but I am prepared to stand up and fight for the principles of that program right down the line, for the simple reason that it was made up by the broadest and most exhaustive kind of examinations and consultations we could make throughout this country, not only in the Capital, but everywhere--representative farmers, farm organizations, legislators, everybody that seemed to have something to do with it. I don't know what he is referring to, but I do say I am not prepared to compromise the principles of that program. 
 Well, in the specific item, I don't mean to say they cannot be brought up again and, naturally, will be by our side in any discussion. But the tenor of the Soviet reply to that suggestion and proposal has been such as to, you might say, close the door to immediate accomplishment under the concept that I described in my December 8th speech. 
 Well, I will tell you: while I think I could give you a fairly accurate description of that, here we have a man with my complete confidence, Mr. Dulles, who has conducted most of these hearings directly, and I think it is a question you should put to him because then there will be no error and no mistake.  My reports are, after all, second hand from him; so I think it would be better that he discuss that question with you. 
 I think I have told this body before, this group of people, that I didn't enter this kind of a task with any ideas it was going to be a picnic or it was fun.  I have also told you this: there are many frustrations, disappointments and even, you might say, inhibitions that are almost unexpected, even to one who is partially accustomed to living in a goldfish bowl because of my war experiences. But I say this to you also, that you get inspiration from many quarters that you hadn't expected. The number of people who are ready to drop what they are doing to do their very best for the United States of America, for the things in which we all believe, is not only remarkable but it is done sometimes with such a quiet, you might say, ignoring of the sacrifices they are making, that it is highly pleasing and inspiring.  I could tell you a little story--something that happened in my office the other day. A little girl came to see me and took, apparently, very great pleasure in coming to my office. The sense of compliment and flattery I felt, came about in this way: she was stricken 2 years ago when she had a date to come down to see me, stricken with polio, and in her determination to walk again and to fulfill that date, she had broken both legs and had, in that long 2-year struggle, to be laid up with all those injuries to mend. She has had operations on her hands and on her feet and legs, but she finally got there.  When you see courage like that, you don't feel very sorry for yourself any more, is what I say. So that is one of the kind of incidents that comes to your attention that lifts you, possibly--you hope, at least--above yourself. 
 I think that before this group I have frequently announced my very firm adhering to the democratic process, which means that everybody is not only entitled to his own opinion, but entitled to express it.  I am not going to comment on that gentleman's statement or opinions, but I will ask you this: please go to see the chief of my economic advisers and see what has been done, what have been the measures that have been adopted from time to time, how they have worked, what they are prepared to do, and what we believe about this whole situation; in other words, get his side of the story.  And I might say this, ladies and gentlemen, when I got a man of the caliber of the head of my economic advisers, I gave him just one order: "You are never, by any chance, to develop an opinion and bring it in here to me or to anyone in the Cabinet or in the Legislature that supports someone's political view, including mine. You are to dig out the facts of this economy, and present them as honestly as you and your associates can possibly do it, not only to me but to the public."  I think you will get very honest answers from him. 
 Well, no. I would point this out: this case is going through what is a quasi-judicial process set up by the Atomic Energy Commission. Until they have completely finished that, I think I wouldn't have anything to say. I think at a former time I expressed here my great admiration for what Dr. Oppenheimer has done in the past, and so there is no point in expressing that part of it, which I understand the report brings out again. I think that I will wait until that whole thing is done before I have anything to say. 
 Well, you are asking me one, Mr. Drummond, that I hadn't thought about in those terms before and, therefore, I wouldn't want to answer it too quickly. I wouldn't want to foreclose my right to make recommendations to at least the leaders, maybe of both parties, but I do fed that here we have got something that is a very deep and grave responsibility of the legislators themselves. Before I went any further in it myself, I would want to take a look; I hadn't thought of it in those terms. 
 Well, I will say this: not only did I have a very interesting visit with him, but a very enlightening one. Among other things, he brought along what you might call an industrial map of Ethiopia showing the industries of the various sections, and bringing me a few of the products of their country. I was ashamed to say that he could give me some very elementary education that I should have had before.  He was a charming individual, the people with him were interesting and knew their business; and in every way I think it was beneficial.  I am certain of this: in Ethiopia, as in happily many other countries, there is a deep underlying appreciation of America's efforts and an affection for America. 
 Well, I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this expression "riding your coattails" of course could be a very dangerous one. You don't know, if you are just trying to ride someone else's coattails, where you are going.   I would say this: if anyone wants to support a program which I believe has been designed for the welfare of America, if he wants to ride my coattails, he can climb right on; if they'll just support this program, that's all right with me. 
 This is the first time I have heard such an idea.  I felt, as you know, that the young fellows that had to fight wars ought to have some part in the decision as to whether or not we should go to war. I still believe that. To my mind the issue of States rights there was mistakenly brought up because, as I recall, the right of women to vote was brought about by a constitutional amendment; and I merely proposed a constitutional amendment, because I thought the voting age should be lowered. I didn't care if they made it exactly 18, but I thought it should be lowered to take in the vast bulk of these boys who are drafted in time of war. 
 No. As a matter of fact, I have made a number of tentative engagements for visits for different reasons at fairs, opening of dams, universities, and so on, where I have no doubt that something of this kind will always be up; but every time I appear, as I say, anywhere from now on, I have just got one idea: get this program enacted. 
 No, I don't think the Republicans are letting me down. Like every other organization in the world, the Republicans have possibly individuals or splinters that don't go along with the majority beliefs and convictions. I take the platform of the Republican Party very seriously, and I think the rest of them do.  Now, those that stray from there, I don't know what their philosophy, what their attitude is. I believe in it, and am trying to get it done. But I think, on the contrary, that certain of our leaders in most difficult and unusual circumstances have performed very well indeed. 
 Next question. 
 Well, I just had it just a minute ago. He is a friend of mine that I visited with before. He came to assure the parallel objectives and thinking in Turkey along with that of America and our efforts, to show their appreciation, their good will. We had a very fine conversation. 
 I believe I have never yet suggested a man's name that was going to be named to a post until he was actually presented to the Senate. I don't think that would be cricket to do that.  John L. Cutter, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Eisenhower's thirty-ninth news conference was held in the Executive Office Building from 10:31 to 10:54 o'clock on Wednesday morning, June 2, 1954. In attendance: 192. 
