 We have no set format. I don't know whose turn it is--AP, UPI.  REACTION TO BICENTENNIAL WEEKEND   REPORTER. You have nothing in particular on your mind this morning, Mr. President?  THE PRESIDENT. No, I am just glad to see you all.  I feel very, very encouraged and very pleased with the results of the Bicentennial weekend. I was pleasantly surprised at the reaction throughout the country. I think it was well reported by the press that not only in Philadelphia, in Valley Forge, in New York, and Washington did everything move along extremely well but it was reported all over the country that there was a real, genuine resurgence of good American feeling toward one another, toward the country, that I think augurs for a real good third century. So, we are well on our way, and I think it will continue. Frank , anything else? 
 I am very confident. The projections clearly indicate to me that when we get to Kansas City we will have a first ballot victory. You can read all the numbers, but when you analyze them, I think, objectively the Ford nomination will prevail on the first ballot.  We have had some very good movement in individual States. We have had good results, of course, in North Dakota. We expect good results next week. And so when we go to Kansas City, I am very confident that we will prevail on the first ballot.  VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE  
 Fran , I don't exclude anybody. We've got a wealth of talent, and I think it's premature to winnow that list down. We have to take into consideration a number of factors--the prime one, of course, being an individual who would be an excellent President. But there are other factors that have to be taken into consideration, and until we get closer to the convention, I think it is too early to make any real speculation. 
 I repeat, I exclude nobody. And I hope that individuals in the meantime will not exclude themselves, because we want the best ticket we can get to win in November.  ISRAELI RESCUE OF HOSTAGES IN UGANDA  
 Not at all. The competition has been close, controversial, and if you win, you win. I talk very affirmatively about the need and necessity for a unified party. I think we can leave Kansas City with a win and a unified party.  And once we get the nomination, we can start pointing out the distinct differences between the prospective Democratic nominee and myself; we can talk about the record that we have. It is a record that I think will be applauded objectively by 99 and 9/10 percent of the delegates to the Republican Convention.  I think it will appeal to a good many Independents, and I have already had some indications that there are some Democrats who think the record of the Ford administration is a good one. So, we will enter the campaign after the convention with a good opportunity to prevail November 2.  PRICE OF OIL  
 There was no discussion of the prospect of any oil price increase. I expressed my appreciation for the action by OPEC in not increasing oil prices in their recent meeting. I pointed out I thought that was in the best interests of the free world and that it would be beneficial not only to the oil consumers but the oil producers in the long run.  1 Prince Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz-Saud, the Second Deputy Prime Minister and Commander of the National Guard of Saudi Arabia, met with the President and also presented him with Bicentennial gifts from Saudi Arabia.  DISTRIBUTION OF CONVENTION ACCOMMODATIONS   Mr. President, this morning Tom Curtis, former FEC Chairman who, as you know, is now working for Ronald Reagan in his campaign, said that he feels the FEC should take action, that the White House is getting unfair treatment at Kansas City--you are getting more rooms. And specifically, according to Mr. Nofziger, 388 hotel rooms are allotted to the Ford campaign and the White House, while only 100 rooms are allotted to the Reagan campaign; Ford groups have received 650 gallery passes, while the Reagan campaign has received only 300. And because the conventions this time are using tax money, Curtis is saying that the FEC should take some action. How do you feel about it?  THE PRESIDENT. Of course, you have to recognize my good friend Tom Curtis is a Reagan delegate, so I would expect he would take that point of view. We are living up to the letter and the spirit of the law. The decisions in this case were made by the Republican National Committee. I understand they were made unanimously, and, as I am told, it doesn't fall within the jurisdiction of the Federal Election Commission.  But I reiterate that in every instance where there has been a ruling by the FEC, this administration has lived up to the letter as well as the spirit.  REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE  
 We haven't made any decision on that, Phil . As I said, I have excluded no one from my consideration as far as a running mate is concerned. Whether that would be a possibility, it's just premature to make any commitment.  OLYMPICS DISPUTE OVER TAIWAN  
 I think it's tragic that international politics and foreign policy get involved in international sport competition. I strongly feel that the Olympics are a healthy thing for the world as a whole. Competition between athletes from all countries ought to be stimulated rather than curtailed. And so, I hope and trust that the diplomatic problems or the international foreign policy problems can be resolved so that this healthy competition can go on. 
 I am being kept abreast of it, but this is a decision that gets involved in Canadian Government decisions on the one hand and the International Olympic Committee on the other. I have expressed myself very clearly that we hope they will continue as broadly based as possible.  ISRAELI RESCUE OF HOSTAGES IN UGANDA  
 The Department of State and our representatives to the United Nations will set forth our position very clearly in the debate that I think begins today, on one or more resolutions before the Security Council. I am told that our position is a firm one, on good legal grounds, and I will wait and let that be expressed by them during the debate.  PRESIDENT FORD'S PROSPECTS FOR A FIRST-BALLOT NOMINATION  
 I think, as I said a moment ago, we will have enough delegates to win on the first ballot, which I think infers certainly that we know who will be voting for President Ford's nomination.  ALASKA PIPELINE  
 I got a very complete report late yesterday afternoon from the Secretary of Interior and the Secretary of Transportation. I think you know that Under Secretary  of Transportation John Barnum is either leaving or has left to go up there with a group of technical people to make an on-the-spot evaluation of the several reports as to the number of welds that are allegedly defective. I am going to be kept constantly advised as to what they recommend as to a procedure and as to the certainty that the pipeline meets all of the Department of Transportation's regulations for interstate pipeline safety.  We have not gotten into the added cost, whatever it might be, but I am confident that I will be fully advised at all times. 
 That is a matter for the Department of Justice to determine. I have not personally communicated with the Department, and I think they have to make any judgments over there, not myself.  PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN STRATEGY  
 I hope to get support in all 50 States, Dick . We don't have any regional strategy. I have said repeatedly that I expect to run a national campaign, and that certainly infers that we want support from the South; we want support from the other regions throughout the country. 
 As I said, we want Southern support, and I think we will get Southern support, and that will contribute to our victory in November.  SELECTION OF VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE  
 I think I know most of the people that are among those that we know would be a potential running mate. I am sure that I will have consultations, but we haven't set out any specific routine for it. 
 
 We haven't given any thought to the curtailing of their overall responsibility. But as President I have a responsibility to review any decisions that they make, and when I saw that decision I was shocked--I go a little stronger than Ron reported yesterday--and I took immediate action because I think that was a very wrong decision. And if there are other decisions that I disagree with in the future, I will exercise my Presidential prerogative to suspend them or to change them. They have a responsibility to carry out what they think is the right determination, but if I disagree, I will certainly take affirmative action in the future, as I did in this case.  WHOLESALE PRICE INDEX STATISTICS  
 I think those WPI figures of .4 percent fall within the guidelines that we have established. If you annualize that figure, it is less than 5 percent, so it's within the overall expectations that we have for wholesale prices.  REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE  
 I think we all have to understand in a very controversial political campaign you make a point, and sometimes with some political license. We have done that historically in this country. We can go back to the days of President Kennedy and the then Vice President Johnson. No one under any circumstances would have foreseen that that team would end up representing the Democratic Party.  All I am saying is that when you take a look at all of the Republican potentials, including Ronald Reagan, I think they all ought to be included for consideration. 
 Phi[ , I am not going to get into degrees of comfort--[laughter]--with potential Republican candidates. When I pick that candidate, I expect him to be a good running mate and a good Vice President. 
 I think when we pick the candidate, he will be a qualified person to be Vice President.  HEALTH OF BETTY FORD AND PAT NIXON  
 Mrs. Ford came down with a very bad cold yesterday following the church services at the  Cathedral. She had a good night. She is going to take it easy for a day or so, and there is no concern, just a typical cold.  I stopped and saw Dr. Lukash  2  when I came to the office this morning. He had not gotten any overnight reports on the condition of Mrs. Nixon. He is going to report to me as soon as he gets any information from her doctor.  2  Rear Adm. William M. Lukash, Physician to the President.  CONVERSATION WITH FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON  
 I called President Nixon. 
 Well, he reported the sequence more or less as they have been reported in the press. I extended to him on behalf of Betty and myself our affection and best wishes for Mrs. Nixon's full and complete recovery. 
 Not at all.  REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE  
 That is a valid assumption. 
 I voted for it. 
 I don't believe that is an active possibility. I think you are referring to the possibility of a gas pipeline-- 
 ..from northern Canada or northern Alaska to the Middle West as one of several alternatives. There are other alternatives that would involve bringing the gas down to the Gulf of Alaska. That matter is before the Federal Power Commission at the present time. It is also before--in one way or another---before the comparable agency in the Canadian Government. There is legislation that is being sponsored which I think is good legislation, that would expedite the determination as to which route is the preferable one. It would be legislation much like that which was approved for the delivery of Alaskan oil. If that gas is badly needed in the United States--and I am not saying on the West Coast or the Middle West--but I think a decision has to be expedited. And so I would favor such legislation which would expedite the determination by the proper authorities as to which route was the better of the two or which is the best, if there are more than two.  SALT TALKS  
 I have said specifically, as far as SALT is concerned, if we can get a good agreement I will make that agreement regardless of any political consequences. We are in the process of thoroughly analyzing our last proposal, the Soviet Union's reaction or last proposal. And if we can move forward on a good SALT agreement, I certainly will push for it, because I think it is in the national interest and in the best interest of mankind as a whole. So, politics won't enter into any decision as far as SALT is concerned. I know of no other major areas that would have any political consideration as far as foreign policy. 
 I intend to push for it. I am not passing judgment as to whether it will come or won't come, but we are working on it, and I intend to push it. Whether we can achieve an agreement or not is uncertain. But it is in the best interest of the United States and mankind as a whole if we can get the right agreement. And I will do it regardless of the political atmosphere that may prevail here because of our election.  RONALD REAGAN  
 I said the person I select for the Vice Presidency will be qualified, and I don't exclude anybody. 
 That's a fair conclusion--[laughter]--if he is the nominee.   PRESIDENT FORD COMMITTEE  
 I don't see any substantial reorganization. I have said, through Ron and otherwise, that Rog Morton is going to stay on. We intend to add people to the top echelon over there as the need arises for particular jobs that must be handled, such as the convention, such as other responsibilities. I see no anticipated major reorganization. Like any other organization, you look back in retrospect as a Monday morning quarterback--you might have done a little better here and there. But I think the President Ford Committee, considering all the problems, has done a good job. 
 I certainly do. I think Stu Spencer is an extremely able person. He has done a good job.  3 Deputy campaign chairman of the President Ford Committee.  SUPREME COURT DECISION ON THE DEATH PENALTY  
 I have stated on a number of occasions I support the death penalty at the Federal level for espionage, treason, et cetera. I support the death penalty for the kind of crimes that involve murder, et cetera. I support the direction in which the Supreme Court is going.  REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IN 1980  
 I would not speculate as to who the Republican candidate might be in 1980. 
 I can only say I don't intend to be the candidate in 1980.  But I expect to be the nominee in 1976, and I expect to hold office until January 20, 1981.  PRESIDENT FORD'S CONTACT WITH CONVENTION DELEGATES  
 I do it occasionally. 
 I don't keep a poll of it or a count, but I like to talk to people. 
 Well, I thank them for their interest in the political system. I thank them that they are actively participating, and I compliment them on the job that I know they will do in Kansas City. MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
