  Good afternoon. Before responding to your questions, I have two announcements to make.  First, I am sending later this week a message to the Congress calling for prompt action on a number of legislative programs that Congress must act on before adjournment. I am recommending affirmative action, as quickly as possible, on my further tax reduction proposals, on the remaining portions of my energy independence recommendations, on my stronger anticrime proposals, and, of course, general revenue sharing.  It seems to me that before Congress adjourns, it must undertake a vigorous legislative program if it is to maintain its credibility with the American people.  Secondly, I am sending to the Congress today a recommendation which would further advance our efforts to restore public confidence in the integrity of all three branches of the Federal Government, including the executive branch, the legislative branch, and the judicial branch. It is vitally important--I am determined and I trust Congress is--to ensure that those who hold public office maintain the highest possible standards and are fully accountable to the American people for their behavior while in public office. I hope the Congress will act very promptly on this legislation. I will be glad to answer any questions. Helen .  QUESTIONS  PRESIDENT FORD'S DELEGATE SUPPORT  
 I am very encouraged with the results over the weekend. I believe that we are getting very close right now to the magic number of 1,130. I am confident by the time we get to Kansas City, we will have 1,130-plus. 
 The best estimate, I think, is 1,103, and we expect some more good news this week. Therefore, by the time we get to Kansas City, I am confident we will have over 1,130.  PROSPECTS FOR DEFEATING JIMMY CARTER  
 Absolutely. 
 By the kind of an affirmative program that we have developed in the last 23 months here in the White House under the Ford administration. I intend to have an affirmative campaign based on the results of turning the economy around, achieving the peace, and the restoration of public trust in the White House itself.  PRESIDENT FORD'S FOREIGN POLICY RECORD  
 Since I strongly believe that our foreign policy has been a successful one--we have achieved the peace, we have the military capability and the diplomatic skill to maintain that peace--I don't see, from what I have read, any legitimate complaints or objections by any of my Democratic friends, whether they are the candidates for the highest office or the Members of the Congress.  REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE  
 I will make my choice known on the Vice-Presidency based on the best person that could serve as President of the United States. My decision will not be predicated on my Democratic opponent's recommendation of Senator Mondale. 
 I have been thinking about this matter for some time. I know all of the individuals who are being considered very well. I have worked with them, known about them. I have studied carefully their records. Therefore, it won't be a last-minute analysis. It will be one based on a good many years of experience and opportunities to know how they performed in public office or otherwise. So, it is not going to be a last-minute decision where we winnow out individuals in a 48-hour period.  ASSESSMENT OF THE CARTER-MONDALE CANDIDACY  
 I think it was obviously the choice of the Democratic Convention, which was well organized and well put together and well controlled. It is a ticket that can be beaten by an affirmative approach that I intend to have in setting forth the improvements that I have made domestically and in foreign policy during the time that I have been honored to be President of the United States. It is a rather typical Democratic ticket when you add up the platform, its endorsement of the record of the Democratic Congress, and the comments that I have heard, both in the acceptance speeches and in subsequent observations. 
 Sure. 
 Well, if you look at the ticket itself, if you look at the platform, and if you look at the record of the Democratic Congress, you can't help but come to the conclusion that they want to spend a lot of money on the one hand and they talk on the other about some restraint in Federal spending. You can take almost any one of the many issues, and they are on both sides of the issue. So, I think it fits in very precisely with my observation that I made on Saturday.  PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN APPROACH  
 I am not going to discuss this campaign from that point of view. I think it is important for me to act affirmatively in indicating the results that we have accomplished. I will let Mr. Carter decide the issues where he has some differences.  UNIFICATION OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY  
 I would hope not because the Republican Party does have to be as unified as possible if we are going to win the election in 1976. I think that unity can be achieved at the convention in Kansas City, and I will maximize my effort to accomplish that result. Therefore, we will have the job of picking the nominee, and I expect to be the nominee. We have to write the platform. I hope the platform will be one that all can support, and not divisive. And when we leave, we, as a party, must be united individually and collectively. 
 I think these delegates, all of them, the ones that support me and the ones that support Mr. Reagan, have a basic philosophical identity. They do represent delegates, one group for me and the other for Mr. Reagan. But the identity of the philosophy is such that I think when the convention is concluded, they can be together on the need and necessity for a candidate who will put forth their philosophy against that of the opposition.  REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE  
 I am not going to make the judgment here as to who will be the Vice-Presidential nominee. We will have a good Vice-Presidential candidate, and, as I said before, we are not going to exclude anybody.  PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN APPROACH  
 I am going to use the Ford record of 23 months--which is a good one--in turning the economy around, in achieving the peace and maintaining the peace, in the restoration of public confidence in the White House, and, hopefully, the restoration of public confidence in the other two branches of the Federal Government. 
 Not at all, because I have made the final decisions in each case.  LIBYAN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES  
 We do know that the Libyan Government has in many ways done certain things that might have stimulated terrorist activity, but I don't think we ought to discuss any evidence that we have that might prove or disprove that. 
 We are working in the United Nations, we are working with many governments in trying to put forward a very strong antiterrorist effort in order to stop this kind of very unwarranted, unjustified action, and we'll continue our efforts in that regard.  REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE  
 I am not going to pass judgment on what his attitude may be. I will simply reaffirm and reaffirm very strongly, I am not excluding any Republican from consideration as a potential running mate.  EFFECT OF COMMUNISTS IN ITALIAN GOVERNMENT ON U.S. POLICY TOWARD ITALY  
 I have said on several occasions that the United States Government, under this administration, would be very disturbed by Communist participation in the Government of Italy. For one reason, it would have a very, I think, unfortunate impact on NATO which is, of course, a very vital part of our international defense arrangement. The United States does have apprehension on a broader basis for Communist participation in the Italian Government.  VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER  
 I certainly don't use your words when I describe the situation that you have sought to so dramatically describe.  The decision by Nelson Rockefeller was one that he made himself. He has been an outstanding Vice President. He has been a close personal friend and adviser, and I will, of course, abide by his decision, as I would by any others.  But, I repeat what I said a moment ago, in my looking around for a Vice-Presidential running mate, I am not excluding anybody.  PRESIDENT FORD'S DELEGATE SUPPORT  
 Getting a few more delegates. 
 There are around 100 uncommitted delegates on a pretty wide geographical basis. Of course, Hawaii has 18, Mississippi has 30, and the others are spread through a number of other States. So, we are going to make a maximum effort to convince individual delegates who are uncommitted as well as those two major States that have not yet committed themselves.  U.S.-CHINA TRADE AGREEMENTS  
 I made a statement  1  about 3 months ago that fully covers that. If you will refer back to that, it will give you a detailed answer.  1  See Item 260.  SELECTION OF VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE  
 That is the principal one, of course, and any other criteria would have to be secondary to that. But other criteria might be age, compatibility with my own philosophy, the experience both in domestic and international affairs. There are a whole raft of potential criteria that I think have to be put into the formula. 
 Over the years I have done that with all or most of the people that are being considered, so I don't think we have to go through the similar kind of routine that Governor Carter went through.  As I understood it, he had never met several of the people that he considered. So, I could really understand why he went through that process. Because of my experience and knowledge about all of the individuals that I think are being considered, I don't think that kind of a process has to be carried out.  EFFECT OF COMMUNISTS IN ITALIAN GOVERNMENT ON U.S. POLICY TOWARD ITALY  
 We aren't going to dictate any formula to the Government of Italy or to the people of Italy. That is a decision for them to make. But I have expressed our views concerning Communist involvement in that Government as far as its impact on NATO.  SWINE FLU IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM  
 Last week the Secretary of HEW and Dr. Cooper  2  met with the four manufacturers and their legal counsel. I got a report Friday from Secretary Mathews. He was more optimistic than some of the press stories seemed to indicate. I have not talked to him today, but we are going to find a way, either with or without the help of Congress, to carry out this program that is absolutely essential, a program that was recommended to me unanimously by 25 or 30 of the top medical people in this particular field. So, we are going to find a way, and I think we will eventually do it. And I expect the full cooperation of the industry and all other parties involved.   2  Theodore Cooper, Assistant Secretary for Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.  LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL TO RESTORE PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE GOVERNMENT  
 The administration has had many reservations about several of the provisions in the bill that is on the floor of the Senate at the present time. One, the Senate bill provides, as we understand it--and we have gone into it with some outstanding legal scholars--an unconstitutional method of the appointment of a Special Prosecutor.  So, what we have recommended is a completely constitutional method of selecting a Special Prosecutor, one that would call for a Special Prosecutor recommended by the President, confirmed by the Senate for a 3-year term, with that particular Special Prosecutor being ineligible to serve other than the first 3 years.  That is definitely a constitutional way to have a Special Prosecutor who would have criminal authority over any allegations made against a President, a Vice President, high executive officials, all Members of Congress, and those involved in the judiciary.  Our reservation was not as to the thrust but as to the constitutionality of several provisions, including the one I have just described. 
 Well, it is our proposal that we feel would accomplish the job of restoring public confidence in all three branches of the Federal Government and do it in a constitutional way.  PARDON OF FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON  
 I decided to grant the pardon in the national interest. At that time the United States was faced with serious economic problems, and we were still involved in a long and difficult war in Southeast Asia. We had very important matters to face and to solve. We could not be involved in the Nixon matter and concentrate fully on the more important matters. I decided in the national interest. I would do it again.  UNIFICATION OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY  
 Well, we are going to unite the Republican Party and appeal to Independent voters and a number of Democrats, just as the Republicans did in 1968 and 1972.  PARDON OF FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON  
 I granted the pardon because I thought it was in the national interest. I think the American people will make the decision, not myself, whether it will be an issue or not.  REPUBLICAN CONVENTION BALLOTING PROCEDURE  
 Quite a few. 
 I am not going to get into the numbers game. We have a fine, fine array of talent in the Republican Party and maybe elsewhere. And so we will just keep that open until we make the final choice. 
 You heard me correctly. 
 I will certainly make a recommendation, and I hope the convention would follow my recommendation. 
 Not at all. 
 Well, use your imagination.  FORD ADMINISTRATION EFFORTS TO PREVENT POSSIBLE ARAB OIL EMBARGO  
 We have been able, through diplomatic successes, to avoid the possibility of a Middle Eastern war and thereby avoided the possibility of an oil embargo. I am confident that the Ford administration successes, diplomatically, in the Middle East, will preclude any such situation as was indicated by Mr. Carter.  If you are doing things right, if you have the trust of Arab nations, as well as Israel, I don't think we have to look forward to either a Middle Eastern war or an oil embargo.  THE SUMMER OLYMPIC GAMES  
 I am very proud of the successes I read about of the American team there yesterday. They did very, very well in the 100-meter freestyle and several other events, and I think the American team has done well and will continue to do well. 
 We have tried to keep the athletic competition at the international level away from being pawns in international politics. We did our very best to achieve that result. And the net result was, with some unfortunate circumstances, that the athletes are able to compete, and I am proud of the American successes.  PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN APPROACH  
 I am not going to pass judgment on my opponent's campaign. We are going to run our own campaign, which is one of a record of accomplishment in foreign policy, domestic policy, and the restoration of trust in the White House. What they do is for them to decide. 
 I am not going to pin a label on anybody. I am going to just say that we have done a good job, and on the basis of doing a good job, I think the American people will want the same kind of a job done for the next 4 years.  LEGAL REQUIREMENT FOR A PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION COMMITTEE  
 I think that is caused by the election reform act that was passed late in 1974. When I made that speech out in Chicago--I think sometime in 1973 or early 1974--that election law had not been enacted. Once that law was enacted, it does require that you maintain a national committee and that the candidate for the Presidency have a separate organization. So, as much as I might want to put the two together, it is precluded by the law itself.  QUALIFICATION TO BE PRESIDENT  
 Well, I think the American people will judge that.  MEETINGS WITH UNCOMMITTED DELEGATES  
 I would hope I could, but I can't categorically promise that. I would like to, definitely.  ABORTION  
 I don't see how that recommendation on my part is undercut by the recent decisions of the Supreme Court. I do not believe in abortion on demand. I do think you have a right to have an abortion where the life of the mother is involved, where there was rape. I don't go along with those who advocate an amendment that would be so ironclad you couldn't under any circumstances have an abortion.  I reiterate what I have said on a number of occasions. I think an amendment that permits the voters in a State to decide whether in that State they want or don't want, is a proper way to give the people of this country or in their respective States the decisionmaking power. 
 Not necessarily.  PERSONNEL CHANGES IN THE FBI  
 That was a decision by the Attorney General and by the FBI Director. Mr. Callahan was not a Presidential appointee so it was handled by the proper authorities.  3  Nicholas P. Callahan was discharged as Associate Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation on July 16 for alleged illegal administration of the Bureau's Recreational Association Fund.  JIMMY CARTER  
 I don't think I really had any impression of him.  
 I was pretty busy.  MEETING WITH THE NEW JERSEY DELEGATES  
 I hope. 
 I am inviting them down because I want to meet them personally, just as I said a few moments ago. I would like very much to have the opportunity of meeting all of the delegates and alternates to the national convention, and this is a good way for me to do with the New Jersey delegation as I have with the other delegations. 
 I didn't know until a few moments ago that members of the press were excluded. 
 We have had a number of such meetings, and the question never came up from the press before, and I just don't see why we should make an exception here.  PRESIDENT FORD'S RATING IN PUBLIC OPINION POLLS  
 The only poll that really counts is the one that is going to come on November 2 when the voters of this country decide in all 50 States. And I will rely on that one. 
 I don't think we should analyze the ups and downs of periodic public opinion polls. The real one that counts--and that is the one that is going to decide this great election--is the one that comes November 2.
