 Good morning. I don't know that I have got anything to say to you. No doubt you are ravenous for news, and I haven't got it. I just got up from the best night's sleep I have had in a week.
 I think I shall probably leave here Saturday night and go straight back to Washington.
 No stop at the Grand Canyon this time.
 The Santa Fe. We will probably go out of here on the Southern Pacific so far as Los Angeles. 
 We will try to work it out to get as many nights on the train as possible and as many days in Palo Alto and Washington as possible.
 Literally thousands of telegrams. All very fine in their tenor. They express every determination of the Republican Party to go at it for 4 years of constructive work. I don't think there is anything else.
 Yes, a very pleasant acknowledgment. I don't recollect what the terms of it were.
 I haven't had time. I just got up. I probably will say something.
 I just went to sleep last night after the show was over, and I have got up, and I haven't any plans. I shall probably take automobile rides around this neighborhood.
 I think that was the arrangement that his time expires in December, but I haven't discussed the matter with him at all.
 I don't know whether there is conjecture on that or not before the 4th of March. The natural consequence will be to get out then.
 Oh, I would not live in Washington after the 4th of March. I will come back to California, I am sure.
 Not the remotest. I haven't thought about it. 
 I haven't given consideration to anything of that sort. I will probably have to earn something of a living. I have been in public service now ever since 1914, and it is a long drain on one's resources. However, I would not say anything about that publicly--just for your own information. Is there anything else special that I can tell you except to take 3 or 4 days off? You have had as strenuous a time as I have. 
 You won't miss the train.
 I don't think so. They all appear in the newspapers. That is about all the record we have.
 It is a sure thing I haven't said 2 million words.
 I have had that suggestion made to me this morning. But I have had only half an hour to make decisions, and I haven't bothered with any of them. I would like to go to the game--Stanford against the Army.
 No, not on this short notice. Is there anything else I can tell you except to take it easy ? Unless something flows in on us from Washington, you won't have work to do for me. Note: President Hoover's two hundred and sixty-first news conference was held at his home on the campus of Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif., on Wednesday, November 9, 1932. 
