[The news conference was held immediately following the President's announcement of his decision not to seek reelection.] 
 It is just as irrevocable as the statement says--completely irrevocable. You just take the statement and read it. There were no shalls, no woulds, no buts; I just made it "will." 
 I don't have any calendar on it. I spent some time considering it. I guess perhaps the turning point was probably last November when General Westmoreland  1  was back here. But it wasn't anything definite or firm at that point.  1 Gen. William C. Westmoreland, Commander, United States Military Assistance Command, Vietnam. 
 That just happened to be the time. 
 I feel as good as a fellow could feel who has gone through what I have gone through today. I think I feel pretty good. 
 No. I made that clear, how I felt about that. You all get the speech and read it; all these questions will be answered for you. 
 No. I tried to explain that in about 590 words tonight.  2 Raymond L. Scherer of NBC News. 
 Well, I wouldn't say that I pointed to every consideration, but I think that basically it is just as I stated it. 
 No. His visit didn't bring it about at all. I just said that was the point that I remember identifying when I really turned that corner. I talked to him about it and that is why I remembered the date. 
 Yes. I didn't tell him that I was going to state this tonight, but I discussed it with him--and have discussed it with him a number of times. 
 I don't know. 
 Well, it added to the general situation I talked about that existed in the country.  3  Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York. 
 I am not going to spend much of my time on partisan politics between now and then. When the time comes to take an active part, I will make my announcement. But I don't want to get into that now.  I tried to make it clear that I don't want to mix up the Presidency and party politics when we have a half million men out there who are willing to give their lives in order to protect us back here. I want to try to get all the people in this country to support us to the extent I can.  Therefore, as I said tonight, I am not going to spend an hour on it or a day on it.  However, I will vote like every good American ought to vote. If there is anything that I think I should say concerning my own personal affairs, I will be glad to say it at the proper time--but I will have to select that time. 
 I would hope that by what I did tonight that we can concentrate more of our energies and efforts on trying to bring about peace in the world and we will have a better chance to do it. 
 We said that tonight. 
 Yes. 
 Yes. 
 Well, I am not going to get into that. 
 I have not done near enough. That is one of the reasons for the announcement tonight. I want to do a lot more these next 9 months. 
 I have 9 months to do what I am going to try to do. I hope, by the end of that time, I will have contributed my part and done my duty. But I have several months yet to do it. And I am going to spend all the time I can trying to get the big job done. 
 I don't know what my schedule will be Thursday. I want to do anything that I can to see that first things come first. I feel that the most important thing for us right now, that I have this week, is some of the efforts I launched tonight.  I just don't know what I will be doing on these dates. 
 No. I had not talked to them. I talked to some folks after the speech tonight. I have not personally talked to them.  4  Governor Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey.  5 Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago. 
 I am not sure I understand what you are saying. 
 No, I would not have anything to say about that. 
 I said I wouldn't have anything to say about that. 
 No, I cannot. My statement speaks for itself and is very clear. I don't see any reason why we ought to have these high school discussions about it. I am genuinely sincere in what I said. There wasn't any reason that caused me to say it except I felt that it was the thing that I ought to do in the interest of my country and in the interest of the people who had so much at stake.  I don't feel very good about asking half a million men to stand out there and defend us, and offer their lives and die for us, and for me not to do everything I can to put myself in a position to do a job as successfully as they do theirs.  I think that if I do not have the aura of a political campaign around me and I am not out trying to win a primary or a State convention or please some party leader, that my efforts might be a little more fruitful. I have never been a deep partisan, some of you have referred to some of my actions as consensus. I do think now is the time--if it is at all possible to do so--to try to remove yourself from any selfish actions and try to turn in as good a result as the men out there are turning in.  So, as I have told you before--we have priorities and this is the top priority. 
 No, no, I am not sacrificing anything. I am just doing what I think is right, what I think is best calculated to permit me to render the maximum service possible, in the limited time that I have left. 
 This gentleman standing up there with the blue tie on will be involved in some of them--and you can just guess what will be the general subject matter. 
 The Secretary of Defense. That question was from Miss Thomas. 6    6 Helen Thomas of United Press International. 
 That is my plan, God willing.  7 Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington. 
 I am not sure. I would think tomorrow. 
 Yes. 
 He did not know that I would not be a candidate, but he did not know that I would be. 
 The same role she plays in every decision I make--a very important one. 
 Yes. 
 No, he did not know until tonight that I was going to say what I said tonight--but he knew before he announced that he was not going to run for Governor that there was a strong possibility that I would not run for President. He told me that he would like to consider that in his decision; if I thought that I was going to run and it was important that he run, he would like to consider it.  10 Governor John B. Connally of Texas.  I told him no, that I felt that I was not sure what my plans were and if he felt like he did not want to run, that would be all right with me.  So, I think that he understood. I talked to very few people about this. I discussed it with Mr. Clifford. I discussed it with Mr. McNamara before he left--in fact, I guess, last August--about the possibility.  I discussed it with Secretary Rusk, Governor Connally, and I have talked with Mr. Busby about it and some of the staff members--Mr. Christian.  But generally speaking, I have asked the people whom I have great confidence in-both in their judgment and in their ability-- to counsel with me in private, and several members of my family and my very close official family. 
 Perfect. Never better. 
 You ought to be in the habit of asking delicate questions; go ahead. 
 I think they will understand what I have done and the reasons for it. I would hope they will appreciate the value-if any--that flows from it. I think they will. I discussed that with General Westmoreland and asked him what effect he thought it would have when he was here in November. 
 No. I have no immediate plans. 
 I said I don't have any immediate plans. 
 Well, I hope that what I said tonight will strengthen it. 
 No. I have not asked them to spend or not to spend any time. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, who are the principal Cabinet officers involved in Vietnam, do not engage in partisan political activities, although that is just a matter of their choice. They are perfectly free to do so because individuals, like institutions, have the right of dissent. They have the right to answer and defend and advocate and so forth in this country.  But it has been generally the practice of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, under my administration, to try to avoid being involved in deep partisan matters. I think they have been reasonably successful in that. That is not to say that they would not attend a public meeting and speak on Vietnam. I don't want them to ever be intimidated because somebody might say that a Cabinet officer is traveling out of town at Government expense and $48 is paid by the Government--and try to hush him up that way.  Just as we invite people to express their views, who may differ with us, we reserve that same privilege for our own people. 
 I have no plans at this time one way or the other. 
 No. 
 Yes. It was, I guess, 16 years ago this week that President Truman made a similar announcement, March 29, 1952. This is March 31. But you were not at my meeting March 29, so I had to wait because I didn't w-ant you to be scooped. I had a press meeting yesterday or the day before, but I thought it would be better to wait until all of you could be here. 
 I think the answer would be no to this particular event tonight. I have discussed with him the problems of the Presidency and the service of the Presidency and things of that nature, but if you asked me, did I talk to him about announcing that I would not be a candidate, and I would not accept the nomination--the answer is no. 
 Oh, I think that it is a mixed reaction. I can't really speak for them. You are running pretty dangerous when you speak for women, but I think they all go along with the decision I made. Lynda has not been here and she wasn't sure that it was as imminent as it was, but she came in at about 6:30 or 7 o'clock this morning. Her mother and I met her. We wanted to be at the door when she came back.  So, we discussed it back and forth a good deal of the day. She had ridden all night and she slept part of the day.  I took time out with Luci to go to church with her while Lynda slept. 
 No. You just take my script, that is the safest thing for you to follow. I just gave my own views, briefly and succinctly as I knew how. I hope it was all right and I would hope that you thought it was the best thing to do; at least, I did. 
 Yes. We have had a good many calls. I won't go into the content of them. 
 I don't want to hold an individual press conference now with you, Sarah. 11  You have had your share of questions. Get one more and let's go on.  11 Mrs. Sarah McClendon, representative of Texas newspapers. 
 It means I am going to work on all of the problems of the country. High on that list of problems, of course, and a thing that concerns most of us, is an early peace, if it could be found. There are many other problems, though, that require attention every day. We hope we will not neglect any of them.  I think maybe we will go out and take a trip tomorrow, but I am not positive, so I can't announce it tonight. If any of you want to go with me, you might want to check in early in the morning. If we make a decision to go I won't know until I have a meeting a little later in the evening.  Mr. Christian or Tom  12  will notify you. The best thing for you to do is go home and get some sleep and get comfortable and be ready early in the morning in case we go, if you want to go. If you don't, why we can get by without you.  12 Wyatt Thomas Johnson, Jr., Assistant Press Secretary to the President.  Q. Why don't you go get some sleep, too?  Merriman Smith, United Press International: Mr. President, thank you very much.
