  Yesterday I talked to Mr. David Ginsburg in Seattle and asked him to become the Executive Director of the group that met with me Saturday--the group that is headed by Governor Kerner. 1  He agreed to return and accept that assignment. I will be seeing him later in the day.  1  see Items 326, 327.  As you know, Mr. Ginsburg is in the private practice of law here in Washington. George  2  will give you a biographical sketch concerning his governmental experience.  2  George E. Christian, Special Assistant to the President.  That is all I have to say. I will be glad to answer any questions.  QUESTIONS GOVERNOR ROMNEY'S CRITICISM  
 The group we have asked to study this will take into consideration the requests I made of them the other day. They will be able to shed light on all of the things that entered into the problems in Detroit.  Basically, so far as I am concerned, I do not have knowledge as to the whys, wherefores, and causes.  I was asked to make two basic decisions: The first, under the Constitution and laws, was to act upon the recommendation for troops. I did that at about 11 o'clock Monday morning.  Later, when Mr. Vance and other Federal, State, and local authorities unanimously recommended deployment, I immediately signed the proclamation and the Executive order.  I don't think anything is to be gained by trying to justify or explain.  GALLUP POLL ON VIETNAM POLICY  
 I don't know.  U THANT'S STATEMENT ON VIETNAM  
 J do not agree with him, but I don't care to argue with a representative of the United Nations on his desire to give his viewpoint to our people.  FEDERAL RIOT FORCE SUGGESTION  
 I would see a good many problems connected with it. I haven't received his suggestions. All I know is what I saw in the paper. I will be glad to have them evaluated and considered by the executive and legislative branches, but I would not care to embrace that recommendation with the information that I have now.  DEMOCRATIC CRITICISM  
 None.  EFFECT OF RIOTS ON LEGISLATION  
 I think that the Congress has carefully evaluated the situation in the Nation as it sees it. I think all of us should be concerned with the developments that are taking place in the cities.  What their reaction will be on any specific piece of legislation, I would think the leadership would have better information about that than I have. None of them has talked to me about it since Newark and Detroit from the standpoint of whether there might be a change of opinion in the Congress or not.  So, very frankly, I just don't know what their reaction would be.  TAX INCREASE  
 No. As soon as the decision is made on that you will be informed. I think you know that we have a recommendation pending, a 6 percent surcharge recommendation.  As I said at my last press meeting, we have had various people in the administration studying the receipts and expenditures, the action taken on appropriations in the Congress, and that we believe that we should have a tax measure this year.  There will be some adjustments made to our recommendation, but as of the moment, I am not in a position to actively spell those out. 
 I say at the moment I am not in a position to actively spell them out. As soon as we reach a decision, we will communicate it to you. I do not want to speculate in a field like that until the recommendations are in from all the people involved.  TAYLOR-CLIFFORD MISSION  
 I think they have had very good meetings where they have been. The last I heard from them was following their meeting with Prime Minister Holt and his Cabinet. I read a report earlier this morning that they had spent several hours-I think 7 hours--and that they generally agreed that this meeting was very helpful to both sides.  4  A news briefing following their trip to the Far East was held by Clark Clifford and Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor on August 5, 1967, at 4 p.m. in the Fish Room at the White House. It is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents .  SELECTION OF THE ADVISORY COMMISSION ON CIVIL DISORDERS  
 The President selected the people in the country that he thought could make a study of this matter and make recommendations to him that he thought would encompass the entire problem.  We tried to select men and women of experience, ability, and judgment whom we felt could consider all the evidence and make a judicious finding.  We did not consider them from the standpoint of militancy or antimilitancy. We considered them from the standpoint of their experience and the people from whom the President would want a recommendation.  I am sure that every person in the Nation who has a viewpoint he wants considered will have a chance to present it in writing or orally, or make any recommendations he cares to make. We will be glad to have them.  We appointed the people who we think will be best on the Commission. I did that without regard to any label.  EFFECT OF GALLUP POLL ON VIETNAM POLICY  
 No. We do not base our actions on the Gallup poll.  PHILIPPINE POSITION AND THE TAYLOR CLIFFORD MISSION  
 No, it did not come as a surprise. I am not familiar with the President's position on further troops.  PRESIDENT TITO  
 Yes. We are in communication from time to time with the leaders of other nations. We have communicated with President Tito on occasion.  EFFECT OF RIOTS ON VIETNAM AND SPACE SPENDING  
 We have submitted our recommendations to the Congress in both of those fields. They are now in the process of debating them. I do not know what action they will take.  We will review the appropriations as soon as Congress has acted and make any decisions that we think are indicated by the requirements of the national interest.  AIRPORT REPORT  
 I do not have any comment on that now.  TAYLOR-CLIFFORD MISSION REPORT TO PRESIDENT  
 Shortly after they come back, when it is convenient for them.  SENATOR MORTON'S PROPOSAL ON URBAN PROGRAM FUNDS  
 We have members of the Cabinet concerned with urban problems constantly evaluating the requests of the cities and trying to act upon those requests within the means they have available promptly. If there is any way that we can improve the administration and the expedition of the programs we have, I am sure the Cabinet officers concerned are anxious to do it.  I know they have been trying to minimize the time involved in every application on every program to every possible extent, consistent with sound administration.  I have been meeting with groups of them from time to time in that connection. I do not believe that the bulking together of the programs is either a problem or a requirement. I do think that it would be helpful if some of the dozen or so programs that are pending could have the approval of the Congress. I have enumerated those programs before.  We have a number of programs for the cities which are now being applied. But we also have some that we would like very much to have fully funded, such as rent supplements, model cities, the rat measure, the poverty bill, and a good many others.  SUMMIT MEETING OF ALLIES  
 I have not seen Mr. Clifford's comment. I would like to see it before I comment on what he has said.  I think it is reasonable to assume that we will be meeting with the leaders of South Vietnam and the other allies from time to time, but we have no place and time now.  EXECUTIVE ACTION TO PREVENT RIOTS  
 Yes. I think that we can and have done some of those things. We asked Congress for $75 million for summer employment for unemployed young people. They granted that fund. But we have allocated it.  I think that is one thing that is helpful. I think that the work with the various mayors and appealing through private employers and to public officials to show deep concern for the needs of the unemployed in these areas is absolutely essential.  We must never let up on that. I think the attempt to provide the encouragement and leadership with the recreation people, the school authorities, the civic leaders is a matter that is receiving all-out support from the administration.  The prompt action upon the requests from the mayors on various programs that we have, from the standpoint of food stamps, from the standpoint of housing, from the standpoint of general urban problems, including poverty and employment, is indispensable and absolutely necessary. We try to stay on top of that.  We have a group in the Justice Department under Mr. Roger Wilkins, with Community Relations, and Mr. John Doar, the Assistant Attorney General, who counseled with certain minority groups to try to be helpful, who frankly said Washington is not nearly as close to these problems as the local people are, or as the State people are. But we are very concerned with them and very anxious to cooperate with all governmental units in any way we can that would be helpful.  Those are some of the areas in which we are working with them.  DISASTER RELIEF FOR DETROIT  
 We have received several suggestions from the mayor and from the Governor. Mr. Vance is acting upon those. I believe he had a press conference earlier this morning in which he presented the Administrator of the Small Business Administration for the Detroit area, who is opening offices there this morning pursuant to the declaration of a disaster area made in connection with the small business loans last Saturday.  The other agencies, food and health and employment and others, are already busy and have been for several days working with the local authorities.  In connection with the disaster declaration handled by Governor Bryant's office, that concerns itself a great deal with public building damage. There are several types of disaster declarations.  Governor Bryant is concerned with the damage to public facilities. The small business disaster declaration has to do with loans and assistance of that kind.  The other departments, while they do not call it disaster, in an emergency situation move as they have with food and so forth.  Mr. Vance is having presented to him by the local authorities the justifications for each of these areas. He will consider them, make recommendations and submit them to the appropriate departments.  The most necessary ones have already been processed and I am sure there will be others.  TIMING OF TAX PROPOSAL  
 NO.  POSSIBILITY OF DETROIT OR NEWARK VISITS  
 I have no plans to go at this time.  NATIONAL SPENDING PRIORITIES  
 Yes. 
 I have given it a good many times. Our gross national product is big enough. I think we are rich enough. I think it is important enough for us to meet our responsibilities at home without neglecting our responsibilities in the world.  I would hope that not many people would feel that because we have a problem at home is any indication that we would ignore or surrender our interests abroad. 
 I have no doubt for a moment but that our country will be able to do whatever is necessary to do.  If we had the same tax rates applied this year to our income as we had when I became President about 3 years ago, we would be receiving in the Treasury some $23 billion more than we will receive.  NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY  
 No. I think that we have made progress. We are optimistic, but we are not ready to announce that an agreement has been reached and that the matter has been concluded.  ANTI-BALLISTIC MISSILE DISCUSSIONS  
 No. There is not anything to add to what Secretary Rusk said yesterday on the "Face the Nation" program.  We have indicated a desire to exchange viewpoints with the Soviet Union on this subject.  We think that it is very vital, as is the whole disarmament subject.  We have urged upon them that we agree upon a time and place for such discussions.  They have indicated that they would exchange views with us and we could have discussions on the subject, but no time and place have been set.  PROBLEMS IN AIDING THE CITIES  
 Yes.  Merriman Smith, United Press International: Thank you, Mr. President.
