Fiscal Year 1987 Budget  The President. I have a brief statement here. We have, as you know, sent our budget to the Congress, and it's a fair and responsible budget and clearly does the job of putting America on course to a balanced budget through steadily declining deficits as mandated by the new Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law. Now, last Friday a three-judge panel of the Federal District Court issued a ruling against a portion of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. We await a final Supreme Court decision, but nothing the Court says should or will remove our obligation to bring overspending under control. Congress shares that obligation. It must meet its responsibility to reduce deficit spending and pass a budget resolution by April 15th.  For our part, we have met the targets for lower deficits, but not by cutting Social Security or essential support for low-income persons and not by gutting defense or raising taxes on the American people. We mean to cut unessential spending out of the Federal budget, and we mean to leave family budgets alone. All told, our budget meets the deficit targets in part by cutting about 5 percent from domestic programs. That's 5 cents on the dollar, and that's what we're asking Congress to cut. If Congress can't do that much, well, then they should at least give me a line-item veto, because I'll make the cuts and get the job done. Let's be frank: Those who say that our budget is DOA, dead on arrival, are really saying, "Brace yourself for a tax increase." I think taxpayers want Congress to get its own house in order. I do, too. So, rest assured that any tax increase sent to me will be VOA, veto on arrival. And now  Philippine Presidential Election \. Well, Mike , I am not going to comment on this process, just as they are not going to render an official report, until the counting has finally been finished. I don't think it would be proper to do so. Yes, they told me in just an interim few remarks and made it plain that they're not going to issue the official report yet. But they told me that there was the appearance of fraud and yet, at the same time, said that they didn't have any hard evidence beyond that general appearance. So, we're going to wait. We're neutral. And we then hope to have the same relationship with the people of the Philippines that we've had for all these historic years. \. Well, I think that we're concerned about the violence that was evident there and the possibility of fraud, although it could have been that all of that was occurring on both sides. But at the same time, we're encouraged by the fact that it is evident that there is a two-party system in the Philippines and a pluralism that I think would benefit their people. And we're glad to see that particular thing happen, and we'll wait until we hear the outcome. Helen ?  Affirmative Action \. Helen, we're not wanting to do that. But we have seen in administering these programs, we've seen that the affirmative action program was becoming a quota system. Now, I've lived long enough to have seen quotas when they were employed long before there was a civil rights movement, when they were employed in my youth to definitely discriminate and use the quota as a means of discrimination. And, therefore, we feel that, yes, we want affirmative action to continue. We want what I think Martin Luther King asked for' We want a colorblind society. The ideal will be when we have achieved the moment when no oneor when nothing is done to or for anyone because of race, differences, or religion, or ethnic origin; and it's done not because of those things but in spite of them. \. I didn't think I'd be President today when I was born or for a great many years afterward. But, Helen, no, whatever the law may sayand I know what Hubert Humphrey said about it, and this is what we're talking aboutwe were talking about the practice. \. Not individually and personally, no. But we find down there at the bureaucracy level and out there actually in personnel offices and so forth, they choose the easy courseset down a system of numbers and say, "Well, we'll go by that." And this is what we're trying to correct.  So, now wait a minute. If you'll let me, please, do something I haven't done before. But just recently a group of newcomers to your ranks came into the Oval Office, and I met them. And I thought that since they are newcomers, at least just as a representative here to start with, let me call on a couple of those. I don't even know where you're sitting. Maybe you didn't have your hands up or not. But just two of them, and then we'll go on with the regular hands up. Dave Beckwith of Time.  Monetary Supply Policy \. Well, I have to admit thatand, you know, it isn't an easythe tools aren't that sharp that you can maintain the money supply exactly where you want it all the time. And it is true that recently it got above their own bracket, their own line of where they wanted to keep the increase. And, sure enough, you saw a couple of percentage points on the low side of the period added to what has been well under 4 percent inflation rate. So, I think this is what they were referring to; we've got to keep our eye on that and keep it there as much as we can.  Now, the other one was Walter Robinson, Boston Globe.  Welfare Reform \. Well, I don't think that that program was really the manneror the way by which the States were doing that. You see, what those States are doing, and what  Governor Dukakis is doing in his State, is what we did in California as part of our welfare reforms way back when I was Governor there. And when I got here, I had our people start informing the States of this.  We were allowed an experiment at that time. We could only do it in 35 counties. And the Department, then, in Washington refused to allow us to do it in San Francisco and Los Angeles Counties. But what we did was submit a questionnaire to these 35 counties, to the communities in the counties; and we said, would they send us a list of the things that they would be doing if they had the manpower and the money-useful things? And we got quite a list and few, if any, boondoggles. We crossed them out when there were some. And then we said okay, you've got the manpower and the money. We are going to order able-bodied welfare recipients to report for these useful jobs. No more money to be spent; it was the same money. They're doing it in return for their welfare grants. And then at the same time, well, we only had them work 20 hours a week so we wouldn't be violating any minimum wage requirements. We said the other 20 must be spent either in job training or job hunting. And we assigned job agents to these people. Each one of them had a list of names to watch these people, and they were doing these community chores.  And we funneled through that program and into private enterprise jobs, not 23,00076,000 people. And this was during the recession of '73 and '74. And when we got here to Washington, we said it worked so well there, and let's see if there aren't going to be other States that would be interested in it. But it's just the plain welfare grant that makes this possible for others to do. \. But we are keeping the program, the partnership program in partnership with local governments and the private sector train for jobs that are going begging in that particular area. There's not much point in going into an area and training people for jobs that aren't available. But you only have to look at the Sunday papersand I've mentioned it beforethe help wanted ads to find out that there are employers that are having trouble finding employees. And so we're training for that specific thing. And it has the highest job placement record of any of the employment programs the Government has ever tried. Lesley ?  Deficit Reduction and Taxation \. Do you want to talk to each other. \. Well, I don't think that we're cutting the essential parts. No one looks far enough to see that the small amount of the cuts is in what could be called the area of fat that's in administration. No level of government has the high-cost administration than the Federal Government. At every echelon of government, where they perform a program for the people, the percentage of the dollar that goes to administer that program is less at the community level, a little higher at the county level, a little higher at the State level, and tremendously higher at the Federal level. Now, if we can eliminate some fat; we can handle this. But, also, you don't bat a thousand percent in making sure that everyone is deserving. For example, in programs such as the aid to college students, we find students that are getting this aid and their families are in an income tax bracket thator a tax bracketincome bracket that, really, there's no reason or excuse for them to be getting Federal help. \. Because it's historic that when you go above a certain percentage in taking revenue from the private sector-government taking revenue from the private sectoryou find that you slow the economy. And this is why the latest evidence of this is that our tax program, once instituted, I think is the principal reason for the 38 straight months of economic recovery that we have had. Sam ?  Philippine Presidential Election \. What we have to say is that the determination of the government in the Philippines is going to be the business of the Philippine people, not the United States. And we are going to try and continue, as I said before, the relationship regardless of what government is instituted there by the choice of the people. And that is all I can answer. \. Well, we're backing the forces of democracy, and the people there are voting, and they're holding their own election, and the only party in the Philippines that boycotted the election was the Communist Party. So, there's very great evidence that whatever takes placeyou've got two parties and the evidence that a sizable percentage of each party has voted for a different candidate for theof the two candidates. So, there is a solid support for both candidates there. Now, as I said before, I'm not going to comment on any of these other things while this vote count is still going forward. \. No. Chris ?  Soviet Release of Dissidents \. Chris, I don't have any way to determine what their motives are in doing this. I only know that since the Geneva meeting there have been not only this but others released, more so than in a great many years. I am encouraged by this because I did talk at great length about the matter of human rights with the General Secretary. And all we can do is hope that this is a beginning, a sign for what is going to continue to take place. \. Well, it's an argument they've used for a number of people-people who have, in their estimation, been close to some things that they feel are secrets for their own security and that they have said that they cannot let people go that have access to those secrets. Now, I have no way of judging how valid that is. But as I say, they've made a start, and I hope it is just a start and that they'll continue. Ralph ?  Haiti \. Ralph, we are just faced now with what we can do. I can only tell you we hope we can be of help as this interim government goes forward to try to institute democracy there in Haiti. Our participation in Duvalier's leaving was that of providing an airplane to fly him to France. \. No. And he never asked us for any.   Catastrophic Illness Protection \. I can't answer your question yet because I've asked simply for a study as to how we can meet the total catastrophic thing for people who have need. And as I say, we had a program that we thought would have worked successfully in California. And we couldn't get any public interest in it, and it would have provided unlimited care and through a private insurance coverage so that there wouldn't have been any governmental, administrative overhead in the program. \. Well, the plan that we had in California, the cost was low that the individuals could meet the premium costs of that. Now, if there was some people that couldn't, why, I'm quite sure, as we help in anything else, we would help in that, too.  Fleet Operations in the Mediterranean \. Well, I don't know the nature of the operations that have been conducted. They conduct them in various parts of the Mediterranean. I don't know that they're all through yet. We have conducted operations there very early on in my administration in which I was informed, because they thought I should be, that he had ordered that that was their waters-which was akin to us claiming all of the waters from the tip of Florida over to the border of Mexico and Texasand that some of the maneuvers would entail some planes and some ships in crossing that line but not getting into what are actually their waters. And I gave the go-ahead on that. And I would again. If they didn't cross it in any way this time, it must have been because the maneuvers did not call for it. \. Well, it didn't add to his image the first time we did it. And as I say, it would be done not for any impression on him, it would be done because, simply, we believe that our squadrons who are there, the Navy, is going to have to conduct exercises and keep itself in fighting shape.  And I'm going to call on you not because you've got a red dress on but just because you caught my eye.   Corporate Mergers \. Well, I can't comment on whether they're getting out of hand or not, but I do know that we have a body of law that offers us all the protection we need. In fact, I think as we've expanded into a world competition, some of that law has been overprotective. We have to recognize now that we're not just dealing with competition within our own borders but competition with firms from outside the borders. And, no, I don't believe that there's any threat or danger of monopoly control here in our land at all, and I don't think there will be. No, right behind you.  Defense Spending \. Well, I've given others exclusive interviews. I try to do that when it's possible in our timing to do that, and it was an opportunity, due to the question that was asked, that I could point out the injustice of this, because we didn't buy any $600 toilet seats. We bought a $600 molded plastic cover for the entire toilet system, and it is the same thing  it is the same thing that is used in the commercial airliners, and they pay the same kind of money that we have to pay for it. So \.I thought it was a pretty good  Public Broadcasting \. Well, I can't answer for that as to why they make their decision on their programming or not. I would've settled for Charlton Heston making the speech that he made about me in Los Angeles a few weeks ago. But let me get back over here. Yes?  Philippine Presidential Election \. No, I said that we're depending on the Filipino people to make this decision. This is their election, and we'll wait and see what the final count determines. \. You're asking me one of those "if" questions, and I'm not going to answer "if" questions. I took my pattern from Franklin Delano Roosevelt when he was President and he held his first press conference, and he said, "I will set down one ground rule . . .," which he never violated. He says, "I will not answer any 'if questions."  Soviet-U.S. Summit Meeting \. Well, I'd like to have it pinned down. They haven't come up with any other date. They mentioned another period, and we informed them that that was going to be running into our coming election, and we would prefer the earlier date. But, no, we haven't seen any evidence that they're trying to get out of this or anything of the kind, because they've already invited me there for one in 1987. So \. I don't think so. That kind of linkage wouldn't work. Yes, you. \. No, this lady. I'm sorry. \. Well, you're asking a fellow who was once a liberal New Deal Democrat before he became a Republican.  So, sometimes we do change our minds with things that have gone on. But I just have to tell you that he has been heart and soul in support of everything that we're trying to do, and I am convinced of his sincerity in supporting all of those measures. \. One of the reasons I couldn't answer specifically on that, I have to tell you that he is a part of every decision, a part of the policy-making here, just as are the other members of the Cabinet. He and I both sit in with the Cabinet, and he is part and parcel of all of the policy here in the administration. Now you, but no, because I  Home Loans for Veterans \. I can't answer that question specifically, either, here as to what we're going to do. I know that we don't want to penalize our veterans, take away any of the benefits and so forth that they have. And I'd just have to tell you that with everything that's going on, right now I couldn't answer you about the situation of the housing loans for veterans.  Affirmative Action \. I am waiting to see what the recommendation is. This is still being studied, and they haven't presented an actual recommendation to me. All I know at the moment is that what they're studying is how can we eliminate this possibility of a quota system. So, I want to tell you that I don't want to do anything that is going to restore discrimination of any kind. In fact, I'm trying to prevent discrimination with this idea, as I say, of eliminating quotas. So, I know it was mentioned here before that supposedly I'm opposed to humanor to civil rights. No, I was opposed to certain features of programs that were being advocated. But there were other programs that I did support. And frankly, I was doing things about civil rights before there was such a program. \. Well, as I said before, I think that we must have a colorblind society. Things must be done for people neither because of nor in spite of any differences between us in race, ethnic origin, or religion. And it's so easy to fall into a bureaucratic practice of saying, "Well, isn't this the easiest thing? Let's just tell them they have to have x number and that'll settle it." Well, let me give you an example. Recently here in the Eastand I won't name the locale-we had a public housing apartment, and they had on their own set a quota. And the quota was for 30 percent black. Now, they didn't get 70 percent white; they had empty units. And yet because their quota was full, they were turning away every black applicant that came to the public housing because of their quota. This is the type of thing that we want to stop. And it isn't government policy. Again, as I say, you have to recognize that when you go down far enough in the echelons of bureaucracy, things can take place that you find you are almost helpless to stop.  I had such an experience in a whole different field, that had to do with health, when I was a Governor and found out that the bureaucracy evidently opposed the change we wanted to make so they deliberately distorted the order and picked on the most helpless people, those that were the most invalid. And I found out there wasn't really any way that I could police that throughout the entire State. And I called a press conference of your colleagues there and told them that I had to rescind the program we'd tried to put into effect because I could not control those people at that level.  Don't get me wrongI think that the bulk of our employees are fine and patriotic and sincere in all of their work, but I also know that there are others that are just going to, as we all sometimes do in private jobsthey are going to do it the easy way. And I want to fix it so they can't do this the easy way.  U.S. Military Bases in the Philippines \. One cannot minimize the importance of those bases, not only to us but to the Western World and certainly to the Philippines themselves. If you look at the basing now of the blue-ocean navy that the Soviet has built, which is bigger than ours, and how they have placed themselves to be able to intercept the 16 chokepoints in the world. There are 16 passages in the world, sea passages, through which most of the supplies and the raw material and so forth reaches not only ourselves but our allies in the Western World. And obviously, the plan in case of any kind of hostilities calls for intercepting and closing those 16 chokepoints. And we have to have bases that we can send forces to reopen those channels. And I don't know of any that's more important than the bases on the Philippines. \. I have to tell you that, as good military will always do, and not just here, but in anything elseI am confident that our Navy has sought for and is looking for contingency plans for anything that might happen anyplace to us. \. Thank you, Helen. I'm  Ronald P. Reagan \. Well, you know, like father like son. \. I was very surprised.  Q. Thank you. Note: The President's 34th news conference began at 8:01 p.m. in the East Room at the White House. It was broadcast live on nationwide radio and television. The final exchange referred to Ronald P. Reagan's recent performance on the NBC comedy show "Saturday Night Live." 
