 Glad to see you. How are you all? Well, Dean  the report on the life and works of those who accompanied us to Warm Springs is that they were one hundred per cent. Now, that is going some. They behaved better than they do in Washington. Now, that is my influence.  It was all right. That was not Fred's fault. You cannot blame him for that. Blame the lady that took it.  He will be explaining that for a year.  They tell me I have told them everything down at Warm Springs.   No; just conducting conversations, no news.  Not one. . . .  Just talking things over, that is all. I don't think there will be any particular news from it ever. In other words, it is one of those informal committees that meets from time to time, that is talking it over with people outside of the committee, and then talking it over with me. I don't think there will be any formal report. . . .  I guess there is no further news on something on which there has never been any news.  . . .  No.  I don't think there is any news on that either.  No.  No.  You are getting lots of chances today.  I have no plan for receiving Mr. Eden.  I suppose when he gets here I shall receive him just as I have a great many other foreign parliamentary bodies. I assume he will be brought in by his Minister, and I shall be very glad to see him as I have seen a great many in the past.  Gosh, they are getting better and better all the time. I am going to have all these questions framed, because this particular time they are good.  Yes, getting better and better. . . .  The only way I can answer that is on the basis of past performance. I have had a great many requests and a great deal of pressure, as you know, from a great many members of the Senate and House to put on people over sixty. So far, I think that we have only put on - what was it? - two people over sixty-nine. And those, I think, were both promotions from the District Court, and made on the understanding that they would retire when they got to be seventy. . . .  No.  I don't know yet, Fred ; we haven't got to that.  Certainly, as a general proposition national defense ought to be paid for on a pay as you go basis, because it is not a self-liquidating project in any way. You see there are, according to the practice of some countries like, for instance, Sweden- do not imply from that that I am going to do anything like that -  but in some other countries they have differentiated among three types of expenditure. The first is the actual cost of running the Government in its current work and they try to raise all of that by taxation. Then they have two other classifications of expenditures. One is the absolutely self-liquidating expenditure, such as - well, for example, Boulder Dam would be - where the dam is completed and the contracts for the sale .of water and power are all signed and we know that over a period of years it is going to pay itself out. And then they have a third classification - I have forgotten what the technical term is - but it is the type of expenditure which will so increase the national welfare or, putting it the other way around, the national income, that there will be a resulting return of the money through the increase in national income over a period of years. It is not actually self-sustaining in the sense that you have contracts out. But national defense, very clearly in my judgment, falls under the category of something that ought to be paid for from year to year.  Well, it ought to be paid for as we go along.  Yes; but, of course, that might, on the other hand, as I suggested, leave out of consideration certain expenditures of the Government which are self-liquidating. Therefore,  No, I have not had that. I don't believe there is anything in that - not technically.  Of course the training of reserve pilots is all part of any program for an increase in the number of planes that the Government has available to go in the air.  Not that I know of. Of course you train pilots on the same kind of a plane for civil aviation as you do for military aviation, when you teach them to fly. There is no distinction. . . .  What sort of things do you have in mind?  No, I do not think so. No, the only thing that might be a part of any national defense program would be certain resources which we have not got in this country. You know that the Army has made several recommendations saying that the Navy should have certain stock piles of things we have not got, like manganese and nickel and a few other things of that kind, and that does enter into a national defense program. They are things we do not have here. . . . 
