 On the Tennessee Valley, I have sent a letter to the various people concerned who are studying the transmission problem - you will remember that. I said: "On September 17, 1936, I asked you, together with other representatives of the Government and private interests, to participate in a conference to explore the possibilities of joint use of power transmission facilities in the Tennessee Valley area. The preliminary fact-finding arranged for at that conference has been completed and the report is in my hands. "Since the conference of September thirtieth, a sweeping preliminary injunction has been issued against the Tennessee Valley Authority upon the application of nineteen utility companies, including certain companies who were parties to the conference. The securing of an injunction of this broad character, under the circumstances, precludes a joint transmission facility arrangement, and makes it advisable to discontinue these conferences." That is that. In other words, there isn't any use in going ahead with the thing as long as we are enjoined. We have the factual report of all of the power facilities.  Merely a factual report, no recommendation. It shows the amount of juice produced at every point and the amount transmitted on the different lines of transmission, the consumption in the various areas, the estimates made by the companies and by the Government on future consumption, and the methods of distribution which are now in existence.  That, I think, is being taken up now. That is only one contract relating, I think, to only one place. This has nothing to do with that contract.  What did he say about the injunction?  He would not have withdrawn it if I had required it. Obviously, the situation was somewhat changed by the sweeping character of the injunction. . . .  As you know, these conferences this afternoon related to labor legislation; and labor legislation only was discussed with Harper Sibley and Bob Fleming and also with Mr. Ogburn and Mr. Green. Labor legislation was also the principal topic with the previous group, Mr. Hillman, Mr. Lewis, etc., although in that talk we did talk of the effects of labor legislation on this particular automobile strike. But that was only in general terms. You will also want to know what I said during the course of the day about what I read in the paper this morning about the refusal of Mr. Sloan to come down tomorrow. I told them I was not only disappointed in the refusal of Mr. Sloan to come down here, but I regarded it as a very unfortunate decision on his part.  Yes.  I think everybody today, including the Press.  No.  I don't know.  A representative of the President has asked him to come down here. . . .  Well, we talked in a pretty wide scope, but we did not confine them exactly. We spoke chiefly about the problem of three things that I have talked about in several messages already this year; child labor, and minimum wages, and maximum hours. Of course those dovetail into a good many other things, but those were the principal features we stressed.  No, we did not discuss that today.  Not yet but soon.  We did not discuss that at all. It hasn't anything to do with child labor or minimum wages or maximum hours. We did not treat that at all.  No.  No.  I think we have replies from every one of them; and from the smaller states the information I get is that it looks pretty favorable.  Kentucky has ratified.  I see.  I have not considered the matter any further.  No, I have not considered it at all.  No.  No, not at all.  I hope soon. I ought to have a record to play on that.  Now, Of course, I don't like to have to analyze what you boys write. If I once started I would get into some awful trouble.   No, I cannot. I have a cheerful disposition; that is the only thing that is left.  No, the only thing I think is, without going into the details of the particular locality, that the emergency certainly will not be over from the point of view of worse damage, worse destruction, worse danger to life from waters, for at least another forty-eight hours because a great deal of this water is still pretty high up on the Ohio River. As you know, up around Pittsburgh it has only just begun to recede an inch or two and that is the second crest they have had at Pittsburgh. At Wheeling, in the last report I got, it was still rising. At Louisville, it is about stationary. At Cincinnati it has dropped three or four inches but that is not yet a final receding of the waters. So, for another forty-eight hours, we are still looking for a good deal of trouble from actual water, and when we have got through with the final crest all the way down the Mississippi, then of course we face the second problem, which is cleaning up, and which is a very serious matter, both from the point of view of the work involved and also from the danger to life.  I would rather put it on a broader basis. We had an editorial this morning that pointed out that whenever we have a flood we have three or four different groups who rush to the Government to get money for this, that or the other thing. There are the people downstream, who want more and better levees; and then the next group that want dams in the rivers; and another group that want to go up into the headwaters and plant trees; and another group that says it is entirely a question of soil erosion. So you get all these different groups that say their own particular pet theory will stop the flood. I have come to the conclusion that we have to pursue all of these things simultaneously. They all tie in in a general picture; and, for the first time, we have in the last three or four years been developing a synchronized program to tie in the entire field of flood prevention and soil erosion. That is one reason why I hope, in the Reorganization Bill, we can have a central planning authority, which will be responsible for a plan which will cover all of the watersheds that go into the Mississippi. And then all the work that is being carried on will have some relationship to the work that is being carried on at some other point.  Yes.  Go ahead with the program.  Where?  No, I have not. That is all done in the law, in the specific appropriations for specific dams.  I beg your pardon. you read that bill that went through last year and you will find that every project was done, with the exception of TVA projects which will be carried out in accordance with the plan two years ago, which was submitted to the Congress. In other words, Congress knows what will be started in the TVA this year. I have no authority to choose any other dams.  You will be.  Look it up and talk to me about it again, because I don't think I have the authority to choose any dams.  Where? Let me know and I will start one. Will you check on it and let me know?  Let us see. You are right on the appropriation for the New England and Upper Ohio that went through, within certain limits, but those limits are again dependent on the states getting together and getting the land for me and, so far, they have not got the land for me. In other words, the more quickly they do it, the more quickly the work will be started. You are right on that. I have the authority, but only after the states have the land for me, and I haven't any now.  In New England that is true.  Yes. I don't know what happened in Ohio and New York; but in the case of New England they have had that Commission which has been at work ever since I was there in the summer, and they have arrived at no conclusion. Connecticut is "kicking" now because Massachusetts and New Hampshire and Vermont have not come together. In other words, it is an illustration of this compact thing not working.  Yes.  I have been doing it ever since the bill passed.  I think you can gather enough from what I have said.  MR. YOUNG: Thank you, Mr. President. 
