  What time did you get up?  Yes; you were not the only one.  Yes. Where is he?  What?  Oh, I thought you said Poland. That would have been news.    I think a good many of us had a somewhat sleepless night. Bill Hassett has told you of what happened at the White House and State Department, beginning at 2.50 A.M. I think that a word of praise should be said for our Diplomatic Service because, without much question, we were advised of the beginning of the invasion here in Washington as early as any other outside nation. Ambassador Biddle got through by telephone to Bullitt about 2.35 our time. It was a very poor connection; and it is a question as to whether any further telephoning is possible between Paris and Warsaw. That we don't know. Bullitt began getting through to us at 2.40, and actually did get through at 2.50. As Bill, I think., has told you, the first thing I did was, of course, to call up the Secretary of State, and the Under Secretary, and the Secretaries of War and Navy, Then Bill  got through to the Press Associations within about a minute after that - I do not think he even stopped to dress - and was on the radio within another minute and a half after that. I do not believe at this particular time of this very critical period in the world's history, that there is anything which I can say, except to ask for full cooperation of the Press throughout the country in sticking as closely as possible to facts. Of course that will be the best thing for our own Nation, and, I think, for civilization. There is nothing that can be said at the present time on some of the things that almost might be called "local." I would include within the term "local" for the present time such questions as: when Congress will be called; the proclamation of neutrality, etc. All of those things must await developments, obviously. Things are happening on the other side today, and probably will tomorrow, which will be important factors in the consideration of these local things - I would say these items of American action. I hope particularly that there won't be unsubstantiated rumors put out, whether they originate here or elsewhere, without checking. It is a very simple thing to check either with the State Department, or any other department concerned, or with the White House. I will cite a very simple example: The Secretary of State called me up about fifteen minutes ago, before I came over here, and said there was a report out - I do not know whether it was printed or not, but if it was printed it would be a pity - that we had sent out a general order for all American merchant ships to return to American ports. Now, that kind of thing is confusing to the public mind, and what I hope is that the American public will stick pretty closely to facts. I think they will, and, in the long run, they will get the facts anyway. As you know, I believe pretty strongly in the common sense American opinion as a whole - the mass opinion of America. I do not think there is anything else I can tell you about that you do not know already. If you want to ask any questions that can be asked about at this time, it is perfectly all right.  Only this, that I not only sincerely hope so, but I believe we can; and that every effort will be made by the Administration so to do.  Yes.  Just this usual batch of dispatches; and they are coming in now at the rate of one every ten minutes-in fact, they are coming in at the rate of one every five minutes.  All over.  I have not considered anything in the last few hours. That follows what I said before.  Ambassador Wilson presented his resignation as Ambassador to Germany, and it was accepted; and he has been assigned to special duty in the State Department.  Today, yes.  I cannot answer questions like that.  I do not think we are ready to announce that yet.  I said, "When."  Well, it means between September first and January second.  There you are; you asked for it.  MR. GODWIN: I will say, "Thank you, Mr. President," if the rest of the gentlemen are willing to agree.  I really cannot give you anything more. 
