 I think the only thing I have today is a letter from Mr.  Biggers, making his semi-final report on the unemployment census. He points out that the cost of the census, including everything, will not exceed $1,986,000 out of the $5,000,000 that was authorized for the census. In other words, $3,000,000 will be turned back to the Treasury. The printed report will be submitted shortly and made public. He points out that the saving in cost and in speed with which the whole thing was done was due primarily to the utilization of the facilities of other governmental agencies, the Post Office Department and others. In the short time that the census was concluded, he has tabulations for 3,070 counties and special tabulations for 952 cities, cities with a population of 10,000 or more, broken down in such form that each state, county and city can use this information as a valuable aid in solving its own unemployment problem. The staff of the organization is now substantially disbanded, only a few people being left to check the final reports and the liquidation of accounts 85,000,000 unemployment report cards were distributed to every home in the country in one day. 'The voluntary educational campaign in which the press, the radio, and the motion pictures all played important parts had so well acquainted the people with the purpose and importance of the census that over 11,000,000 people voluntarily filled out registration cards. 5,833,401 reported as totally unemployed -   5,833,401 reported as totally unemployed; 2,011,615 as unemployed, except for emergency work; and 3,219,502 as partially unemployed. Fifteen tons of postal cards came into Washington. The census demonstrated the possibility of quick action and cooperation among the branches of the Government to undertake emergency tasks. Regardless of fluctuating totals, the data showing characteristics and composition of unemployment have permanent value. These facts developed include a study of ages and sex; dependent workers; geographical distribution; industries and occupations - Steve  will make this available for you - all of which will be necessary as a basis for any comprehensive reemployment plan. Since this information is available by counties and cities of 10,000 and more population, an opportunity and a challenge are presented to local communities to assist in solving our principal economic problem. An interesting revelation is the fact that as the main breadwinner of a family is thrown out of work, additional members of the family seek work which accentuates the number of unemployed in depression times. Likewise, it proves the fact that to bring about recovery, it is not necessary to provide jobs equal in number to the unemployed, because, as breadwinners are restored to work, other potential workers vanish from the labor market. That seems to be fairly well established. In other words, the unemployment census has real value; and makes it much more easy for the Government to conduct the next unemployment census in conjunction with the decennial census of 1940.  I think we are, in general, working toward a system of that kind. In other words, it may be called a voluntary registration system.   It has turned out to be of real value, not only for the bringing together of definite figures for the time that it was taken, which was the first week in December, but it also ended all kinds of perfectly crazy stories, stories that were put out by all kinds of people, where the figures varied by millions, and gave us a perfectly definite point of departure. Also, it is very useful for the future.  I had not thought of it; it is a new one on me.  Those were the factors, yes.  Not the only factors.   No -   Unfortunately, not. We did - we were working towards it, as we all know, in an experimental way under NRA, really, honestly, in an experimental way. However, we had to desist from those experiments when NRA was declared unconstitutional. And at the present time the whole thing is being started anew, not with any thought, as I have said so often, of reconstituting NRA. It is being started anew through the study of what was really misnamed the monopoly problem - because it is a far wider problem than the mere discussion of certain definite monopolies - and the study of them will go hand in hand with this investigation I hope the Congress will authorize before they adjourn.  Of course the other spending program did not fail, but it got to such a point that certain other economic and business methods ran away with the ball.  That is right.  No.  Well, those conferences are going on every day.  Well, they are, every day.  I think probably there will be another meeting of the Board very soon.  Very soon; I don't know when.  The Chairman.  Perfectly true; I have not asked him yet because I have not seen him.  I don't know; it is a question of law, I suppose. The statute is very definite in setting up the National Munitions Board. It says, "The Secretaries" of these different Departments - "The heads" of these Departments. Well, by Government custom, as you know, these interdepartmental boards meet with the membership composed of Assistant Secretaries and, in order that the record may be perfectly clear, we want to have a meeting with the Secretaries present. Legally, whether the action of the Board when it is constituted by Assistant Secretaries may be all right, nobody knows.  They take into consideration the language of the statute primarily. When any question comes up as to the construction of the language, they are at full liberty to look into the debates on the floor or the hearings of the committee prior to the passage of the statute. . . . 
