 I think you have got all the news there is. I don't know of any, literally.  No.  None at all.  I just might as well talk to you, off the record. Actually what happened that day was that in the morning, I think it was Jimmie who said, "By the way, Mr. Black is going on the air tonight at 6:30." I had entirely forgotten about it. I said, "Fine," and never thought about it again, and I did not go to the Governor's Mansion to receive a telephone call, Ernest , and I did not change cars, U. P., because I wanted to avoid the radio. What happened was very simple. About twenty minutes before five, before we got into Olympia, the Governor said, "It has stopped raining. Don't you think it would be a good idea to get into the open car because there will be a crowd there?" When we got into Olympia there were certain reasons why we wanted to go to the Governor's Mansion - I need not explain any further - and after we got away from Olympia the road was wet so we slowed up the procession to prevent the policemen on motorcycles from going overboard. For that reason we had a slow run and instead of being in the open car for about twenty minutes I was in it exactly two hours and ten minutes. That is the actual, simple fact.  "Surgical" is good.  Well, there isn't any comment.  No. It strongly implied that there was a possibility, that is all; not that it would be. I know my English.  No.  Perhaps I should have used the Wall Street term,"when, as and if."  Yes. It depended on circumstances and subsequent happenings.  You cannot take anything, Bob. That is an "if" question.  I should say within the next week. i have to get back to Washington and do some checking up down there.  Partly that and partly the opinions of various people that I want to talk to and have not had a chance to talk to. I would say, for background, that probably threefourths of the Members of Congress to whom I talked on the trip are in favor of a Special Session.  I did not see them at Spokane. I think I saw Pope on the way out, did I not?  But I have not seen any of them since they started their hearings. I believe somebody on the train had seen them at Spokane  Yes, Jim Murray, that was it, and he told me how they had gotten on.  No, he simply told me he had talked to them and he thought they were getting on very well.  Yes.  Well, I do hate to specify a date. If I were writing the story, I would say somewhere between the 8th and the 16th because that would give them time, if there is a Special Session, to get most of the spade-work done before the Christmas holidays. If it were made too late they would run right into the Christmas holidays before they really got anywhere.  If I were writing the story I would mention the principal things such as the crop bill, wages and hours, reorganization, regional planning and, by the way, on regional planning, of course it is easy to say "the little TVA's," but of course they are not.  No, they are not TVA's. They are not at all TVA's. In other words, the TVA, under the law, is given complete charge over a whole region, a whole watershed and, if a dam is to be built, the TVA builds it. When an electric transmission line is to be run, the TVA runs it. When there is soil erosion work to be done, the TVA does it, and the TVA is doing quite a lot of that replanting. When it is a question of building certain communities, you will notice that the TVA is doing it. In other words, it is a complete administrative agency for that region. Now, the bill which Senator Norris has is an entirely different thing. It does not create any Board or Commission with administrative authority. It is. merely a planning agency and, as the bill is drawn, it is nothing more than a planning agency. Of course on the administrative end, things depend a good deal on how the reorganization bill goes through. The idea of the reorganization plan originally was that there would be a Public Works Department. Now that has been eliminated; but we can arrive at the same objective by an entirely different method by coordinating all of the public works agencies of the Government through the President's office so that after a plan for a region is made, the Congress and the President would then determine who would carry out the plan. Now, it would not be in one agency, necessarily. There might be a dam on the Columbia River, a new one, three or four or five years from now which had been recommended and which Congress appropriated for. Now, in all probability, that dam would be built by the Army Engineers or the Reclamation Service and not by the Columbia Valley Authority because that is only a planning agency. Do you see the distinction?  No, the agency would only make recommendations to the planning agency of the President - the national planning agency under the White House. I think the easiest way of putting it is this: Suppose there are eight regional agencies, and they make recommendations for 800 million dollars to be spent. They all come in with their recommendations and they amount to 800 million dollars. The President confers with the Director of the Budget and with the Secretary of the Treasury. We say, "This is perfectly absurd. We cannot possibly recommend to the Congress 800 million dollars of public works. We can only recommend 200 million dollars." So we get them all in, the eight chairmen, around the table and make them cut their 800 million dollars down to 200 million dollars. Some are made to cut more than others but the total amount involved is cut from 800 to 200 million. We list those in a list marked "A" and we list another 200 million dollars, let us say, in a list marked "B" and we send those two lists to the Congress as part of the budget; and we say to the Congress, "Here is what we have all agreed on as being the best projects. They are in list 'A' and we can afford 200 million dollars which they will cost but, for your information, here are the next best, another 200 million dollars; and it is entirely in the discretion of you gentlemen as to whether you want list 'A' as it is or take something out of list 'A' and substitute something from list 'B', that is in your discretion. The only thing we ask is that your total do not exceed the 200 million dollars. You can even, if you gentlemen of the Congress think it is wise, authorize something that is not on either list 'A' or list 'B'. That is solely a matter of Congressional discretion, but don't go beyond 200 million dollars."  Gosh, it is awfully hard to do it off the record.  Or on the record. Well, I "in took" the general situation west of the Mississippi because I did not get much of a chance to see things east of the Mississippi. First of all, the crop situation is infinitely better than at any time in the last four years; even, on the whole, better than 1935 which was not a serious drought year, and a great deal better than 1934 and 1936.  Yes, I could, but I always like to check figures and statistics.  Yes, that is right. Number two, I think there is a better understanding of what it is all about than there has been at any time in the past.  On the part of the voters, on the part of the population.  Let me give you an illustration: I mentioned several times, for instance, that PWA and WPA projects have got to be curtailed. There would have been an awful holier a year or two years ago or three years ago if I had said that. Today there is a general understanding of that fact.  Yes.  No, I do not think it is a question of better crops.  Perhaps better crops help them to a better understanding, but there is an understanding that it is not a mere hand-out program, but that it is an economic program which shifts with the economic condition of the country. It is an understanding that we are not going to keep people on relief when we do not need to. . . .  Certainly.  Why?  Not at all.  Because the reduction of acreage takes place, in almost every case, on poor land.  No, they won't grow more than the old ones did. That is exactly the point.  Do you remember that drive from Glasgow down to Fort Peck? That is almost all upland. None of that land ought to be cultivated; none of it at all. Well, what are you going to do with the families on it, throw them into the cities and put them on relief? We have got to move them somewhere. Where? Suppose you put them down in the Boise Valley. That upland farmer was farming 300 acres of wheat and he had not made a good crop for the last seven or eight years. Take him down and put him on 40 acres in the Boise Valley. He does not grow wheat, he grows small stuff, garden crops like onions of which there is a very little surplus at the present time. You have transferred him from a crop which has a large surplus into another crop which has virtually no surplus.  There is always, when you get a pretty good price and a good crop yield, a slackening of interest. Of course most of them realize and remember what has happened in the past. There is very little - not nearly as much as one would expect -  of the lack of interest that would normally come, because they do remember what did happen and they say to themselves, "If we do not do something about it at the present time, it will happen again." They are much better educated than they have been.  No. And of course the other side of it is that if it does not go through, they are bound to have an awful smash in crop prices; and then they will be the first to come and demand that we do just what we are trying to do for them this year.  Apparently no real interest in the method but a great deal of interest in the objectives. In other words, the average man throughout the West and all through the East says, "Quicker, cheaper justice, extremely advisable and very necessary. We have all had our experiences. We do not know much about details. Maybe the President is right, maybe the President is wrong, but what we are after is the objective."  You are a little premature. I don't know. I would not put it in now because it will be too much of a guess. I don't know.  It has to come up under the Senate rule that they vote on it immediately after the passage of the crop bill. It has passed the House already.  That is what I am going to talk about when I get back to Washington.  For instance, the question of additional District judges. That is one method. I don't know. I think the Circuit Court judges recommended twelve. I think the Department of Justice recommended twenty-four. Well, we obviously need to do something about it. Whether it is twelve or twenty-four is not the important thing.  No, not necessarily but, on the other hand, I would not say that you can consider it in.  I think on that I can only talk really completely off the record. I don't want to say anything for background.  Read the last line I had in the speech. That gives it about as well as anything else.   Here it is: "Therefore America actively engages in the search for peace."  Yes?  Yes?  No; just the speech itself.  Not for a minute. It may be an expansion.  All off the record.  No, not necessarily. Look, "sanctions" is a terrible word to use. They are out of the window.  I don't know that I can give you spot news be-cause the lead is in the last line, "America actively engages in the search for peace." I can't tell you what the methods will be. We are looking for some way to peace; and by no means is it necessary that that way be contrary to the exercise of neutrality.  No; conferences are out of the window. You never get anywhere with a conference.  That was the London Times.  It is an attitude, and it does not outline a pro-gram; but it says we are looking for a program.  Not necessarily. That is the interesting thing.  Put your thinking-cap on, Ernest .  What do you mean, "aligning"? You mean a treaty?  There are a lot of methods in the world that have never been tried yet.  I can't give you any clue to it. You will have to invent one. I have got one.  On the contrary, it might be a stronger neutrality.  Yes, this is all off the record.  Depends on which one you mean. There were 435 different attitudes in the House and 96 in the Senate.  That was a catch vote, as you know.  No. Don't talk about sanctions. Never suggested it. As I said to Jimmie, don't get off on the sanction route.  That is not a definition of "sanctions."  No.  That is exactly the difference.  No, it can be a very practical sphere. 
