(Roy Howard - Campaign speeches - Conversations with Great Britain on naval and air bases.)  Which story are you referring to?  I did not see any that said he was a culprit.  In other words, hadn't you better get down to brass tacks and say that the newspaper story had said that he had been offered - not offered - but asked to take on a definite assignment for the Government at the time - and that was true? The rest of the story, that he had been assigned to form a propaganda bureau in South America, was not true.  No particular reason why I should not. I asked him to go down by plane-it would have taken about forty days to go down - and meet all his old friends. When he started the U.P., he got to know all the principal newspaper owners and editors in certain of the main capitals of South America, Central America, and he also got to know, during that period, many of the people prominent in Government. I asked him to go down and talk to them confidentially, on behalf of the United States, to find out what their own personal opinions were on fifth-column activities, as we call them, in various South American republics, because he knew them all, knew the owners and editors of the principal papers. He seemed best fitted for it. And that was all. He did not go. Does that cover it all right?  Yes. Yes. I cannot tell a lie - like George Washington.  George , you had better reduce it to a mimeographed copy and give it to Bill  every morning.  You know what the situation is on that just as well as I do, all of you. I told the people, told the Convention that night on the air, about midnight, that whether I like it or not, I happened to be the President of 130 million people, the United States and dependencies - territories-and things are in such shape this year that it is, of course, perfectly obvious that I cannot do any campaigning as you all know. I think that covers George  all right.  Yes.  I can't tell you yet because you may be disappointed. But they are proceeding.  I don't think you had better speculate on it. Just like last Friday. 
