THE PRESIDENT: Let us talk agriculture. I have here some pretty up-to-date charts which I think Steve  can take out to the Press Room and pin up so that you can see them. They show pasture conditions on June 1the black belt is the extreme droughtand the conditions on July 1. See what a difference there is. This here  is the statement of rains from July 1 to 6, so that the three of them give you a pretty good idea. The general situation is that while there are still drought conditions in the Southeast, that is to say Southern Kentucky, Northern Tennessee and Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina, they are not our principal problem. There are also drought conditions, as I said before, in Eastern Oklahoma and Western Arkansas which have been slightly relieved in the last two or three days. The principal problem is, of course, in the Northwest, especially in the Dakotas, Eastern Montana, Northeastern Wyoming and extending now into Northeastern Minnesota. There are, all told, in all of these drought areas, including the Southeast and Southwest, about 204,000 families who need some form of immediate cash relief. The bulk of them are, of course, in the Northwest. We have worked out a fairly comprehensive plan by which we are putting 50,000 to work at the present time, on W.P.A. jobs. These 50,000 are doing useful work, chiefly in the following forms: first, digging wells, in other words getting down to water; and, second, building earth dams, so that when rains do come they will not all run off all of a sudden; third, building farm-to-market roads. Those are the three principal forms of actual relief work. Those workers are being paid weekly wages, and will continue until snow flies. In other words, they will be taken care of with actual work until it is impossible to work outdoors in that area.\.' No, certainly not. . . . Q. Do you have any plans for Quoddy after the present money has run out? THE PRESIDENT: Only that I am working very hard in the case of Quoddy and the Florida Ship Canal to use the existing plant so that it won't lie idle. Q. The existing plant? THE PRESIDENT: Yes, the existing plant. In the case of the Florida Ship Canal we are negotiating with the University of Florida for the use of the buildings down there forI think they call it an Extension Service Course. Q. That would be a short-term lease? THE PRESIDENT: Yes. Q. Does that mean that you are abandoning the Ship Canal? THE PRESIDENT: Have to. The same with Quoddy. Q. How about Quoddy? Do you think you can use the buildings up there? THE PRESIDENT: I cannot tell you yet, but I am working very hard to find a useful occupation for the buildings. Q. We will probably have to rent them. THE PRESIDENT: There is a very good hotel in Eastport. Q. I did not see one. Q. Do you mean the Quoddy power project is abandoned? THE PRESIDENT: I cannot devote any money to it. How can I? I don't know. . . . 
