  Did you have a good holiday?  No. When you were away last week there were all kinds of ribald remarks made about your absence. It was all right.  No quarter, isn't that right?  Yes. I think I am almost completely devoid of news.  Probably Sunday afternoon or Sunday night.  I think it is .  '36.  MR. DONALDSON: All in.  It is what you might call a perfect thirty-six.(Laughter) That ought to hold you. I do not think I have anything this morning. We are going up tonight and coming back - going up on the night train and coming back Sunday afternoon or Sunday night, probably, subject to change. Steve  says the Secret Service does not want definite times of train departures or railroads put down ahead of time in the press, not tonight. I do not know how you are going to disguise that but -   I do not think we have any particular news outside of that. As a matter of public information, vessels have sighted a submarine, nationality unknown but not American, off the southern boundary of Alaska, where it joins the Canadian territory, in what they call the Inside Passage. A submarine, nationality unknown, has also been seen off Boston, about sixty or seventy miles south of the tip end off Nova Scotia and about half way between there and Nantucket Shoals.  What?  Yes.  The Coast Guard, of course.  We never will disclose any of these sources for perfectly obvious reasons. However, they are perfectly reliable. May be anything.  There is a patrol all the way from our northern border, roughly, down to and including the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico.  I was asked whether this was in the neighborhood of the Neutrality Patrol. Well, it is a little difficult to say because we are maintaining a patrol all the way from Eastport, Maine, to and including the Caribbean and the Gulf.  There is no regular patrol over there, no.  Well, you know my definition of them the other day. I guess that is good enough.  What kind of submarines are they?  No. They might be Swiss.  Don't get too nosey.  Might be Bolivian or Afghan. You will get it if you keep on.   I have not had anything except a large pile of telegrams. I think Steve  has told you about them. I have only seen a number, a small number of them. MR. EARLY: I have not seen the Press today, sir.  I have no idea how many there are. I was simply told there are a large number. I have seen only forty or fifty myself; they have only sent the ones from governors or personal friends.  Oh, yes.  Do you know at all, Steve ? MR. EARLY: Yes, sir. I know from the tabulation kept by the telegraph office last night and up to ten o'clock this morning, they were pro, with the exception, I think, of, he said, eight to ten, and two of those were not in exact opposition. They told me that they began to come in spontaneously; they were enthusiastic and the volume was in excess of any received after any of your recent speeches. Q. Did you get an idea as to how many there were? MR. EARLY: I asked him, and they said they had not counted them. MR. YOUNG: Thank you, Mr. President. MR. GODWIN: Snappy work, Mr. Young, snappy work.  
