  Who quoted him?  Who was supposed to have said this?  In what kind of meeting?  Oh, I don't know why this should be anything more than background; I don't think it needs to be off the record. I read the papers this morning. Now mind you, it is not important for the people to know whether my left eyebrow is raised or whether my tone of voice is angry - you better cut that out. I am not the least bit angry - I am interested; I am really interested in a problem of ethics that I think the American people ought to be interested in. It does present a problem, and it is interesting, in times of world upheaval. I will try to put this- what shall I say? - logically; there are certain things in regard to the defense of the United States that it is advisable, for the defense of the United States, should be kept confidential; and that is why, occasionally, before certain committees on the Hill, these matters - which for national safety it is believed ought to be kept confidential - are spoken of by the experts along those lines - are spoken of only in secret or executive sessions of a committee. There is not very much new in this; I mean, it has been going on, I think, since 1776. It still lives, this problem does; and this morning, when I started my breakfast, I read front page stories in all the papers about the Chief of Staff of the Army who was said to have given certain information to the Senate Committee on Military Affairs; and the stories then went on to say exactly what this Nation was supposed to have done. Well, you raise two questions, both of which concern ethics, morals, and patriotism in exactly the same way. The first question is, frankly, as to whether members of that committee, ethically, morally, or patriotically ought to disclose to anybody on the outside what was said. I am simply raising this as an interesting problem. No. 2: If they do disclose what went on in the secret meeting, it is perfectly obvious that any reporter who is worth his salt will try to find out - perfectly all right. If the story is disclosed to him by a member of the committee, either under seal of secrecy or without any seal of secrecy - it is perfectly all right for the reporter to take that story to his office, because that is part of a reporter's business. So I don't think there is any blame attaching to any reporter who carried those stories to his office; but the printing of the story or putting it on the wires by press associations or newspaper offices in Washington presents another very different, very difficult problem: Is or isn't the owner or the manager or the managing editor or the head of the Washington office under the same moral or ethical or patriotic duty not to print a story which has come out through a violation of confidence, out of a secret session of a Senate committee? That is a nice question - something that ought to be thought about; and, as I say, I don't attach any blame to any of the newspapermen who got these stories - that is a part of your job, obviously - but I do raise the question in regard to newspapers printing a story of that kind. And, finally, just to close the thing up, I have got in my hand here from the Chief of Staff a story of what he said, that size . It is completely different from any of the stories which actually did appear, second or third-hand, in any of the papers this morning.  What do you mean?  Do you mean to say that it is the duty of the press to publish what are considered to be military secrets involving the safety of the country?  I fail to see exactly what you are driving at.  Certainly not! That would be what you might call compounding a felony.  Yes, I do.  It is not correct, in the first place, but a lot of people are going to think it is. . . .  Well, I don't think we have ever had any trouble about that before. There has been mighty little that has been kept secret, and I don't think it has hurt anybody. They are things that have been kept secret on the advice or recommendation of the people who are responsible - primarily responsible - for American defense, the Army and Navy.  No, only if the Government didn't give out or held secret things that there was no reason for holding secret.  The test is what the Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy thinks would be harmful to the defense of this country to give out.  No.  It might be the safest way; but of course, naturally, one doesn't like to withhold information from committees of Congress. The best way would be to have no disclosures by members of the committee and no disclosures by publishers.  Then the second is essential.  No, the printing of it, I am talking about.  No.   I am not criticizing the press - haven't been.  Yes, quite right. It does raise an interesting question of ethics, morals, and patriotism.  Of course not; that is why I am putting it up to the people of the country.  There is no question of censorship.  Yes.  Let's have a little discussion and see what the Congress does. 
