(Her Majesty Wilhelmina, Queen of The Netherlands, was a guest at this Press Conference. As the newspapermen came in, the President and the Queen were both standing behind chairs in front of the desk. Mrs. Roosevelt was also present, and stood to the right of the Queen.)   I can really see them now. I very rarely see more than the front row. MR. DONALDSON: All in.  I don't think that you good people have had any advance notice of this, but Her Majesty consented to come here today, not to be asked questions but to have the White House Correspondents' Association presented to her. I think you all know that The Netherlands and this country have most of their ideals in common. And it is a very interesting and a very wonderful thing to know that constitutionally in The Netherlands and in this country freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and freedom of the press are a part of the Government. They are recognized by the constitutions of both of our Nations. And I can only say that in these past three days, all of us the Congress, the Government- the executive branch - and I think the press- have been made very happy by the presence of this really great head of a Government as our guest head of an Allied Nation, who is seeing this war through with us. And so I present all of you gentlemen, and ladies, to Her Majesty, the Queen of The Netherlands. And I have asked her, and she has graciously consented, to say a few words to the White House Correspondents' Association.  HER MAJESTY QUEEN WILHELMINA: I am indebted to the President for inviting me to his press and radio conference, having thus been given the occasion to voice my admiration of all the work the members of the American press and radio have done, not only in the past and happier years, but especially since the outbreak of the present war. I have had the opportunity to read and listen to reports from men and women who are actually in the many scenes of combat with the enemy, and who with complete disregard of their own safety gather their information for the sake of truth and public enlightenment. The mission of the press and radio is one of great responsibility, more so now than ever, when the future of the world and civilization is in the balance. Its fulfillment is dependent on freedom of speech and a free press - two conditions no dictator ever grants. In this country, as in all parts of my country, both rights are constitutionally guaranteed and deeply ingrained in the life of the Nation. Where occupation has temporarily abolished them, defeat of the enemy will see them restored. At present, wherever freedom of speech and press continue to exist, the contribution which press and radio make to the effort of those upon whose shoulders has been placed the sacred duty to lead democracy to victory is of immense value, because they share the task of leading mankind toward a brighter morrow.   Now we are going to sit down and proceed with the regular conference. . . . Donald Nelson wants me to mention the following - it came over the telephone a few minutes ago, so I haven't read it first. I assume it's all right. : "We are engaged in an intensive drive to collect all of the scrap possible. We need steel scrap badly to increase present production. We are keeping ahead of the blast furnaces now, but we want to accumulate 17 million tons of scrap to insure steel production for the year 1943. We want to take all abandoned steel structures, abandoned railroads, plants and buildings, old farm machinery of no further value, and any miscellaneous steel or copper - or rubber, of course - scrap that's lying around the home. This is merely another effort to get in a lot of scrap of various kinds that we feel certain is still lying around the country in different places."  I think that's all I have got.  There isn't any more - there is nothing more on the rubber survey committee that was appointed yesterday? MR. EARLY: No, sir.  They're at work. That's all I can tell you. ' What?  No. I am not going up for the primaries, because we have essentially no contest for -  in the Democratic primaries in the District. In other words, I am not permitted to go into the Republican primaries .   I would. . . . 
