 I still hope to get off this afternoon at three o'clock. I was asked in the front row when I would come back. I can't answer the question because I don't know. I hope to stay until Tuesday, but I am not sure that I can. If somebody will ask me what the reason is, the reason is the Japanese situation. I have here a release, which you will get when you go out, in regard to merchant vessels. This is after consultation between State, War, Navy, and Maritime Commission. : "American merchant vessels sailing on routes between the United States ports and ports of Spain, Portugal, and their adjacent island possessions will not be armed at this time. "American merchant vessels sailing in the inter-American trade between ports of the United States and ports of Central and South America will not be armed, at this stage. "American merchant vessels sailing on routes in the Pacific Ocean will not be armed under existing circumstances. "Public announcement will be made of any change in policy affecting any of these routes."And that is all.  I think I would ask that question in Tokyo and not in Washington.  I think I'd better not.  I think that probably is true, and it has been based on an American policy of infinite patience.  No. They have not.  NO, no.  I don't know.  No. I would say just exactly the same. I think I could tell you, for background- but only for background - that the situation seems serious, because our one desire has been peace in the Pacific, and the taking of no steps to alter the prospects of peace, which of course has meant non-aggression. It really boils down to that. And also - as background - I was, last spring, talking along the line of general peace for the Pacific, based on a settlement of the war between China and Japan- the restoration of peace there, plus a permanent arrangement for non-aggression in the Pacific, and the restoration of normal economic relations, access to raw materials. And as you know, the Secretary of State, with even more patience than I have - which is saying a whole lot - had been holding conversations from, I think it was, April. And in the middle of them came the Japanese expedition to Indo-China, which is very far afield, and caused us very great concern, because it seemed to show a reasonable parallel with the Hitler methods in Europe. As, for example, the infiltration, over a period of several months, of the German armies into Rumania and Hungary, placing themselves in the position where strategically they were all set to attack Yugoslavia and Greece. And of course the drawing of the parallel made peacefully inclined people over here wonder whether this occupation, with a limited number of troops in Indo-China, was the beginning of a similar action in the Far East, placing obvious American interests in great jeopardy if the drawing of such a parallel was justified. The American flag, of course, does fly from the Philippines. And even before the Japanese went into Indo-China, one might almost say that the Philippines were located in a horseshoe, with Japanese military control over the coasts of China, all the way down to the southern border of China, and Japanese military control on the opposite side- the east- over the mandated islands, so called. You look at a map closely, that is a sort of a horseshoe, open at the southern end, and the Philippines in the middle of it. I think a study of the map would be advisable for all of us, because the Hitler method has always been aimed at a little move here and a little move there, by which complete encirclement, or the obtaining of essential military points, was merely a prelude to the extension of aggression to other places. It's a perfectly obvious historical fact today. And we are of course thinking not only about the American flag in the Philippines, not only about certain vital defense needs which come from that open end of the horseshoe, but we are thinking about something even more important, and that is the possible extension of control by aggression into the whole of the Pacific area. And we are thinking about what it would mean to this country if that policy were to be used against us in the whole Pacific area. I don't think that anything more can be said at this time. We are waiting ....  Yes. We have been for a long time.   Wait a minute. I wouldn't say working for the status quo, because we  -   You have got to leave China out of the status quo. We are certainly not working for the status quo in China.   Or Indo-China, for that matter.  Against further aggression. We are working to remove the present aggression. . . .  Absolutely.  No. . . . 
