MR. GODWIN:  Did you have any ill effects? Did you get a cold?  Not a sign of one. Charlie  got one.  I think it was. MR. DONALDSON: All in.  Well, judging by the looks of people, I should say you could take it, too.   Yes. I don't think there is any particular news this morning. I am sending up a message early next week on natural resources. . . .  Yes. Otherwise, I don't think there is anything at all.  I have no further news than what you already have. Of course I think that, in the interests of peace, there come moments when statements, conversations and headlines are not in order.  Therefore, having no news I don't think I will say anything further.  I think I have already answered the question.  I have already answered the question. MR. EARLY: May that one sentence be directly quoted?  Yes.   Yes.  No, Mr. Runciman is coming tomorrow. I think he is coming just after lunch and staying until Monday.  Quite aside from this last January twentieth there have been quite a number of occasions which have shown the need of a larger auditorium in Washington. Do you remember the party that had to have overflow meetings in Constitution Hall because there wasn't any place big enough to take care of all of them? We have talked about it for a long time. It is a very desirable thing for the Government to have one very large auditorium in Washington. On the other hand, it is a question of what comes first in the present condition of things. Take, for example, the Army. Today the Army is, I think, in twenty-two different buildings, most of them rented. Probably it is more important to house some of our people, Government workers, than it is to build an auditorium. If we had enough money to build both, I would be delighted to build both. I am working at the present time on a plan, which is all a part of the general planning idea, that lists the needs of the Government in the way of buildings in the District of Columbia. It is a more or less informal report that would be sent to the Appropriations Committee of both Houses, the thought being that it would plan to spend a certain amount of money each year for perhaps ten years. I think there have been plans of that kind before. It was on the basis of such a plan that the Triangle buildings were built. Now we have come to a point where we need new plans.  Yes.  There isn't any news on that at all at the present time. That very informal committee is working on it and I will probably see them over the weekend or early next week.  I haven't heard anything except what I have read.  That went out of existence.  Only informally. We were not ready at that time because it got through - it passed one House and not the other.  That is a sort of "iffy" question.  It does and it doesn't. Of course the Jefferson Memorial is in a different category because there is a Joint Committee on that subject. I cannot very well do more than refer to the fact that that Joint Committee is still in session.  I cannot tell you yet. There is only one letter so far, so it cannot be called "correspondence."  There isn't any conference. Senator Minton is coming down to confer with me. The Attorney General will come down but I suppose he will come down with a lot of other Senators. MR. YOUNG: Thank you, Mr. President. 
