  Oh, undoubtedly; absolutely.  That is on the record.  Well, I will tell you. When it comes you are not going to have any notice of it at all. The first that will be known probably is when it actually goes up to the Senate.  Yes, when it goes up to the Senate, you will know.  Don't go of[ the deep end on that, either. There are lots of things. That is probably the first you will know about it.  Yes, you can use that.  It is just as I told you. I cannot write your story for you, Fred .   The answer is that I have forgotten that I was making a speech on Constitution Day until you reminded me of it.  What do you want, just a snap judgment on something I had not thought about at all? No, I cannot give it to you. I have not thought about it at all.  Nothing is definite in this life. If everything is all quiet on the Far Eastern Front and on Capitol Hill, I am leaving on Friday, midnight, and getting there Saturday morning and probably coming back Sunday night and getting here Monday morning. But even that is in the lap of the gods.  If you want me to talk about cotton, for background, I can tell you what I have said before on so many occasions. We inherited, in spite of - what was it called - the Farm Board in the Hoover Administration, we inherited in 1933, five cent cotton and a thirteen million bale carry-over. Then we adopted a policy in 1933. The first was to curtail crops until we got that carry-over down to a reasonable amount which we figured out, as long ago as that, to be around five billion bales. Also, as a part of that policy, we started in to buy cotton to increase the price and maintain the price. Obviously if you go ahead and buy - in other words, loan money on cotton, which is the same thing - if you do that without curtailment of surpluses you will break the Treasury and the longer you keep it up the worse the Treasury goes broke. That is obvious. The two things went hand in hand. We loaned money to take cotton off the market immediately but with the definite idea of the curtailment in crops. In that way you would be able to sell that surplus when the total of the carry-over was reduced to a normal point. The thing culminated this year. The past Spring we got the total carry-over down to about five million bales, and the price was up over twelve cents. Everything "hunky dory," lovely and everybody happy. And the price would have stayed around twelve cents if we had had a continuation of surplus control. That however was eliminated- we know how and when. There has been no surplus control since then.  I cannot make loans until we have some solution in the future of the surplus problem.  It applies absolutely the same way, with different figures of course, to wheat, corn, hogs and a number of other major crops where we used surplus control in the past. When we get it back, as we are bound to, we will be able without any question to resume our efforts to get a decent price with reference to cotton and a reasonable assurance that that price will be maintained year in and year out.  On the contrary, the soil conservation end of it is working out very well, but, as you know, the soil conservation does not go into control over surplus.  To a very small degree. . . .  I just told you that crop control is inevitable unless we are going to wreck the economics of the country because every time that cotton goes down to under ten cents or wheat below eighty cents, the purchasing power of onehalf the country dries up and the wheels of the factories slow up. It is the same old story. There is nothing new in it. We started in the Spring of 1933 with a perfectly good economic program and it is going to go through. The country is going to demand it.  I cannot tell you any spot. I am talking general principles. I cannot give you dates and messages.  I have not read Mr. Green's amendment. I think he made it clear when he went out, that he had told me about three matters of principle. Now, three matters of principle are a very different thing. I don't know what the amendments are. I am in favor of retaining collective bargaining. I am in favor of retaining the provisions of the Walsh-Healey Act and I am in favor of doing nothing to fix wages lower than the going rate in the vicinity. Now, those are matters of principle.  Nothing other than what we have been doing right along. It is coming along very well. You know, it does not rest entirely in their own hands. For instance, if we have loaned money to a bank and it is due on a certain date and the bank does not want to pay it back until that date, it has a perfect right not to pay it back until then. . . . 
