 Good morning, everybody. I think this is going to be the dullest for news on record. I don't know anything.  I know it; it doesn't always work out that way. Who is going to the boat races?  I think I could get a White House Correspondents' crew that would beat the Harvard crew.  No.   Yes. I just remarked to the Senator  that this would probably be the dullest conference on record. It has got to the point where I am seriously thinking of organizing a White House Correspondents' crew to take part in the intercollegiate regatta next year.  I would put Mac and Steve  on the training end.  Yes.  I don't know when the next message will go up. You had better "stick around." One might go up some time today; but I haven't decided and I can't tell you which one it will be.  What do you mean, the "death sentence"?  All I can say is that I am heartily in favor of Section ii.  Of course the objective is this and I think probably the easiest way to understand it is something along this line: There are certain holding companies which are wholly intrastate such, for instance, as the Public Service Corporation of New Jersey. I think that is wholly intrastate - I am not certain - but it is 95 or 98 percent intrastate. The Niagara Hudson Company of New York is an intrastate company. Now, as I understand it, we eliminate from the operation of this bill the intrastate companies that do business solely within the State. Then you come down to certain other types of holding companies like, for example, the Associated Gas and Electric Company. Now take in your own minds - we have talked about this before - take a sheet of paper and on the bottom put a lot of little circles - coming back to my old illustration. Those represent the operating companies. Say there are 100 of them. In most cases the operating companies are properly capitalized, and in most cases they are making good money. Suppose, for the sake of argument, that they are making an average of $7 on $100 investment. That $7 goes up that sheet of paper in a zigzag line and it goes through, let us say, 33 other circles which are in the middle of the sheet of paper. Those are intermediate holding companies, they are management companies, engineering companies, finance companies. On the way up through these various zigzag lines - the most extraordinary document in the world is the organization chart of the Associated Gas and Electric Company - by the time the$7 comes up through these 33 intermediate companies and gets to the top company at the top of the page, there isn't $7 left. The $7 has been milked all the way up so that when it gets to the top holding company of all, it may, if it is lucky, represent $4. Now, the objective of the bill is to eliminate the intermediate companies so that the $7 will go up to the top substantially intact. I suppose that is the easiest way for the layman to be given a picture of what it is all about.  No. But there is one other feature, and that is that the holding company in the first degree probably should relate to substantially contiguous territory. When that holding company relates to widely disseminated properties all over the United States, it is not a holding company, it is an investment company.  I don't see why not.  Yes.  I should say you are absolutely right, but I hesitate to say so on the record for fear somebody would start a boom in North American stock.  
