 Doris , how are you? I am glad the big boy lets you sit down.  I am working on that. It is up to 550 applications now.  Oh, I would say about a third.  They will come along in driblets. MR. MCINTYRE; I am not convinced as to what "politicians"covers.  Work it out with Doris .   With WPA? Yes.  Of course you know about PWA. They are going as fast as they possibly can and those are the two major things. CCC will be up to its new number on the first of July-the new enrollees. . . .  As far as it is humanly possible.   I should say this, that the object of work relief as distinguished from the dole is to give wages for work instead of just enough money to keep body and soul together without work. During the past six months there has been an increase - perhaps that is not fair because it brings it down a little bit late, the increase took place between last October and this April - an increase of unemployed to such numbers that existing funds did not make it possible to take care of every able-bodied person who was able to work, to take care of them with work. Now, this addition will take care of a large part of that additional number of able-bodied citizens who can work, and for whom we did not have enough money before.  It is a continuing policy and there are two perfectly definite schools of thought. One is to give them wages for work to a sufficient extent to keep them going, in as decent a way as we can afford to do. The other school of thought is merely to give them enough money for food and clothing, without asking them to work for it.  I would not put it that way because you are only stating a third of the problem - a quarter of the problem. It is far deeper than that. Technology, economics, or whatever you choose to call it - some people say it is the result of the World War, other people say it is the result of new needs of civilization, other people stress the new machinery by which you can turn out, with the same amount of labor, twice as much goods as you did eighteen or twenty years ago - they are causes, and all are contributing factors. In every civilized country there is more unemployment than ever before in history - world history. Now, that is the simple fact, and no country has devised a permanent way, a permanent solution, of giving work to people in the depression periods as well as in the boom periods. The only method devised so far that seemed to give 100 per cent of relief, or nearly so, is the method of going in for armaments, putting the unemployed to work manufacturing goods which have no permanent capital value-goods which do not reproduce wealth. Of course, everybody knows that while that may work for a year or two years or a few years, it is by no means the permanent solution of the problem. We are all groping and trying to find a way of doing it without the use of armaments.  That is one of the answers but not the only permanent answer. That particular answer has been used with very great effect in Sweden which, however, is a very small compact country.  We are, to a certain extent, using it here at the present time. The difference over here has been that we did apply that method in 1933, 1934 and 1935, but in the process, when it was working in 1935, 1936 and 1937, we did not pay off the cost of it, but the Swedes did.  In other words, in time of prosperity the Swedes laid aside enough in Government revenue to pay for the things they did in the period of depression.  Well, it is being studied.  Relatively very little, Claude  because, if you will remember the figures I used three or four months ago about the armament figures in some of the countries of Europe, they ran as high as 45 or 50 per cent of the national income. Well, at that time, our armament figures were about 12 per cent. With the new program I should say, as a guess - I have not checked - the armament percentage of our Government expenditures may run as high as 15 or 16 per cent. Therefore, it is not to be compared with the economic result in those countries where they are spending 45 or 50 per cent. . . .  I can only tell you in the utmost secrecy, if you promise not to use it. I did not know that I got it.  MR. MCINTYRE: You got it.  What did you do with it? MR. MCINTYRE: It was one of six hundred.  I think it was mislaid in the mails.   That is one of the things I am going to talk to the Secretary of State about next Monday. I have not done a thing about it and if I get time before I leave, I will look over these  -  look over the bids for this little cottage on top of the hill and maybe I can give you a story - I hope so. And maybe on Thursday or Friday - what day is today?maybe on Thursday or Friday I can take you up to the top of the hill and show you where it is going up.  Yes. What I did was to draw the plan and Henry Toombs did the real job. I have to be careful about that because I haven't the license to practice architecture in this State. Q. There are a lot of us here who are glad to hear you ask what date it is because we are having the same trouble.  Q.  We assume, Claude , you were speaking for yourself.  
