 Good people, how are you? Glad to see you.  I think we ought to get a chair for the Dean[Mr. Young]. Pull it up, it is right behind you. . . .  We had a very, very interesting talk that lasted about an hour and twenty-five minutes.  About utilities in general. I should say that Mr. McNinch and he and I covered pretty nearly the whole field, talking on matters of general principle underlying the problem, with the objective and the hope that a very crying need in the country for additional power facilities can be met. The apparent need for expenditures in the coming year runs from a billion and a quarter dollars to a billion and a half. We are all agreed on the need of expanding facilities.  All the power in the United States. And then I brought out some data which I have been getting recently which of course we all know about: that the use of power is going up practically every year - I am talking about power as a general thing - and the rather interesting fact that in the present set-up of power development in the United States, about ten percent is being generated by Government projects and the other ninety percent by private companies and municipalities. Is that right? MR. MC NINCH: That is right.  Of course nearly all of that ninety percent is private. On the basis of area - that is geography - somewhere around eighteen percent of the area of the country could be - not is, but could be - served from Government power plants as they have been already built or are laid down.  Oh, no. It is a different thing. The ten percent, Russ , is the amount of power now generated - the total amount is one hundred, and ten percent is now generated from Government plants, the other ninety percent from private plants. That is that thing; leave that to one side. Now, the area of the country, the geography, the total square miles of the United States, eighteen percent could be - not is, but could be - served from Government plants.  Built and building.  Yes. Then a third thing, which is quite interesting, is that on a population basis in the United States about thirteen percent of the population of the United States could be served from Government plants. Now, let us put it the other way around: That means that from eighty to ninety percent of the total area of the United States, the total population of the United States and the total number of kilowatt hours is being served by private utilities. MR. MC NINCH: And cannot be by Federal.  And cannot be by Federal.  That would be a very simple question to put:What hydroelectric development could the Federal Government put in to serve St. Louis?  HOW much power comes from the Mississippi dams? They are three feet high.  Oh, no.  The total amount of firm power from the Mississippi dams would not run the White House. MR. MC NINCH: Almost nothing.  I am not taking into consideration perfectly remote things like the St. Lawrence Waterway. We haven't even a treaty with Canada. I don't know.  I am talking about any present program.  And, incidentally, another reason why, in all human probability, it won't get beyond the ten to eighteen percent of Government by either area or population or bulk power, is the fact that if any more were developed by Government it would barely maintain that ratio with the new production of private power. Do you see? That is a very important factor because, taking a practical example, you can take any one of those new dams in the Tennessee Valley, and the chances are that the private power companies will be increasing their output in the same proportion if one of those new dams comes in. Frank, have you got that paper of yours about the Tennessee Valley? I think it is rather interesting.  Take the Tennessee Power Company, starting in the year 1933 - this is the sale, actual sale of power to ultimate consumers it was 2,271,000,000 in 1933.  That is kilowatt hours. In 1934 it was 2,356,000,000; in 1935 it was 2,683,000,000; in 1936 it was 3,269,000,000; or an increase in the sales of the Tennessee Power Company of 44 percent in four years.  Sure, of course. And, as you know, that goes along.  Yes. In installed capacity they have gone from 3,021,000,000  -  MR. MC NINCH: That is generation.  This is generating energy, from 3,021,000,000 in 1933 to 4,072,000,000 in 1936. I will give you the other figure. On revenue - this is in dollars-I might just as well make these round figures, unless you want it down to the dollars?  In 1933, the Tennessee Power Company sold $54,000,000; in 1934, $56,000,000; in 1935, $60,000,000; in 1936, $67,000,000.  Surely.  It started in 1933 when we took over the Wilson Dam.  Oh, surely, because we started from scratch; we started from zero.  I don't know. In other words, you take this one company which, from the point of view of the utility companies, is the worst hit.  One of them, the Tennessee Power Company.  That is the geographical area and thirteen percent on a population basis and ten to fifteen percent on kilowatts.  Yes.  No, I don't think he did. I did not give him those figures there because we do not get to them - I gave him population, geography and total kilowatts.  I suppose the easiest way is to put it this way: That there is this crying need for more power and that the difficulty, Mr. Willkie said, is in raising the junior money. I said, "Where?" Well, we picked an area many hundred miles removed from the Tennessee Valley, in other words, so far removed that Tennessee Valley power would not enter into it. It is an area in which there is no water power. I said, "What is to stop the company out in that area from going ahead and adding to its power generation? It needs to." "Well," he said, "the general feeling." I said, "The Government isn't in that area in any shape, manner or form," and, quite frankly, the only answer I got was, "the general feeling." I said, "The Government not only hasn't gone in and has no plans for going in, but how could it go in?" "Well," he said, "the general feeling." Well, that seems to be the difficulty.  Yes.  He said they couldn't sell the securities. I said,"Has any effort been made?" He said, "No."  Well, he said, "It is impossible."  Not the major principles, no. I asked various other leading questions which I cannot tell you about at the present time very well because - Oh, I mean they related- well, just as an example, would a utility recognize that common stock should be limited to the reasonable returns set out by the common law, seven or eight percent? That is a matter that is still open because the determination of that answer would solve a great many troubles.  No.  He gave me, as he went out, a memorandum which I have not had the opportunity to read.  He did not get to that.  Oh, yes; we only talked about that, that is all.  Well, Fred , I don't know how to answer that. I said, "Do you think the Government should sell no power from these plants?" He said, "Yes, they should sell."  Yes, I suppose so. We did not talk about that.  No.  Yes.  I should say so, wouldn't you, Frank? MR. MC NINCH: Yes.  Very distinctly.  I would not say that - We talked about that purely as theory. Nothing was put up by either side. We have been talking theory today and we shall continue to talk theory for some time to come. There is nothing concrete, no suggestions that the company do this or the Government do that.  The fact that we are getting down to some of these fundamentals.  I talked, for instance, of the famous case in the northeastern part of the country where a little private company had a little strip of territory, about twenty miles wide and forty or fifty miles long. They had their own private development, two or three villages, all local capital, and the total amount of money was $250,000. They just had one line that served these two or three villages and ran up the highway a bit. You could not even call it rural distribution. They were doing very nicely, making about 8 percent on their money right along, paying it out to themselves. Finally, two of these big boys came in competing for the territory and the bidding started at half a million, threequarters of a million, a million, and finally they could not stand the gaff any longer and they took a 500 percent profit. They sold out for a million and a quarter. "Well," I said, "should that million and a quarter enter into the rate base of the purchasing company or should it be $250,000, which is what the whole thing had cost them?" He said, "No, certainly not. It should be $250,000." Now, we are getting somewhere, when we begin talking like that.  We are getting somewhere, never mind.  Barely scratched the surface.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes. Wouldn't you say so? MR. MC NINCH; He proposed, he said he would be entirely agree-able to have all the write-ups discovered by the Federal Trade Commission and reported by them taken out of the capital structures generally.  When were those reports made? MR. MC NINCH: They were completed in 1935. I believe they went over a period of three or four or five years. The suggestion was made by me that they did cover a considerable percentage of the industry but not all. They did not examine the whole industry but they did examine the larger set-ups. They covered 68 or 70 percent of the total investment.  Yes.  Yes.  And made to me because it is, of course, of definite interest to those five groups that I sent it to, the three Committees on the Hill and the Federal Power Commission and the National Resources Committee.  Yes.  Because Frank Walsh brought it in yesterday. I did not know when he was coming.  Oh, no. In fact, it ought to help because there we have figures one way and figures another way. It ought to be extremely helpful. The public is entitled to both figures, as I said in my letter transmitting it, and these figures deserve at least as wide publication as the previous set of figures. . . .  Not for a minute.  Not for a minute.  In just a minute. I want to read this telegram that came in. Harry J. Bauer was here in Washington last week -  MR. MC NINCH: The day before the date of that telegram.   - and I expected to see him, but being laid up with a bad tooth I could not see him. I think he has gone back to Los Angeles but I expect to see him the next time.  He sent this telegram to Chairman McNinch, which I think is rather interesting. If you want copies I see no reason why you should not have copies.  "Will you please express to the President my sincere appreciation of the honor of being invited to attend the conference of the utility executives to be held at the White House today and also my regret that it is impossible for me to be present. Should you feel that my ideas would be of any interest to the President, will you please advise the President that our company has lived successfully for many years in competition with the yardstick afforded by the municipally operated plants in our territory - that we have successfully met this competition by progressive measures such as basing our rates on historic cost rather than on reproduction cost and that of making rates as low as possible rather than merely reasonable, thus avoiding the necessity for rate regulation by the Railroad Commission of the State of California - that we have been and are continually reducing rates voluntarily, our first consideration always being that of our consumers, that as a result of this policy our company has not had a general rate hearing before the Railroad Commission since 1922 - that our general policy concerning rates can be stated as follows: 'Rates should be as low as possible, thereby anticipating, one, competition, two, regulation, three, the economic necessity of the consumer, and, fourth, the reasonable expectations of the consumer. Our company has greatly benefited by the President's policy, particularly with reference to low cost of money, and, secondly, by the greater interest in the use of electricity which national publicity has created in the minds of the consumers. I am sending this message to you rather than directly to the President so that such attention will be given it as you think it deserves."  As soon as they stop treating my bad tooth because I don't want to take the dentist with me. This is a guess on my part but it will be either Saturday night or Sunday night, but entirely subject to the treatment.  Well, on the first, the location: It is in Number 3 hole, aft, on the starboard side.   Oh, judge for yourself, sweetness.  I think I will probably make that announcement at the Gridiron Dinner.  No.  In some lines, not all.  The last advice I had was that lumber has taken a very definite drop. Cement, about which there has been a great deal of complaint about price maintenance, not by agreement but by hypnosis, that hasn't gone down. Steel hasn't gone down. There is competition in lumber and that has gone down.  I don't know. I have not had any of the consolidated indices we get now.  It still is - the Central Statistical Bureau - but I haven't seen anything for about three weeks.  I don't know. On the question of the wages and hours and the crop bills, I have been very much amused, sitting here with nothing very much to do in the morning except to read the paper, to see all the various stories about this being an Administration proposal and that being the President's proposal, and this being thrown out and that being accepted, et cetera. The only thing I can obviously say is what I said last Spring, that I would send a message outlining objectives. I sent two, one in the Spring on wages and hours and one the other day on wages and hours. The easiest answer is to tell you to read the messages. One of you may decide that X bill does not conform and that Y bill does conform, but it is just your guess. It may be good and it may not be.  No. Was he on the air?  I cannot comment in answer to Arthur, obviously. As long as you do not tie this in in any way with Arthur, that was perfectly true in Charleston in 1935. The things we had done, which at that time were largely a monetary and pump-priming policy for two years and a half, had brought the expected result, perfectly definitely. That, of course, has absolutely nothing to do with the present situation because the monetary medicine that was given worked and there was no more monetary medicine given. On the pump-priming, we have gradually come to an end or, rather, a great diminution of pump-priming. Then, of course, there was the third factor, an important factor. The time was just after the NRA decision. Wages and hours were all right, especially wages. There was also the getting together of industry every month around a table, industry by industry, where they went over the old-fashioned law of supply and demand: "Is there too much of a surplus at the present time? Should we slow up?" That was knocked into a cocked hat. Subsequently, in January, 2936, came the other factor, which was the knocking out of Triple A, which was working on the general control of unwieldy surpluses. Today we 'are suffering, in the cotton industry, from a condition which would not have been nearly as bad if the Triple A had been in effect this past growing season.  I don't think so, Fred . I haven't seen today's dispatches.  I think the only thing you can do would be to intimate that efforts made at seeking ways towards peace will, of course, continue at every possible opportunity. That is the policy of the Government - to seek every possible means towards peace, both in relation to existing situations and future dangers - to keep on trying. If you don't succeed at first, keep right on trying. Well, I hope to be over on Friday.  Just a family dinner, that is all. 
