  I was away off. My guess was made, as you know, way back about the first of August, and I saw no reason at any time in the campaign to change it. My guess was 340 electoral votes for me.  Yes. I was away off. . . . Up there at Hyde Park the boys had a pool on different sections and regions and, basing the thing more or less on that 340 I lost them all.  Well, about a hundred and ten votes did.  No.   That was awfully nice of them.  I think they probably were correct.  No.  No. It may be here, Constantine ,but I haven't seen anything.  No - not yet.  Only this, that I have not considered anything along those lines one way or the other, and I have to warn everybody, off the record, that this kind of a story  is silly. Where was it? Oh, yes ,  "That some Cabinet changes were likely was reported in New Deal circles."  What I want to emphasize is that it was not reported in New Deal circles; it was written in this particular office. And the next sentence ,  "It was said that the resignation, etc." It was not said in official quarters, it was written in the office.  No, you can use that if you want to.  I will solve it. I will say, "Earl, it was not a planted question."   Well, the question is this: Oughtn't you go back to grade school and learn English? It was perfectly clear to me and to almost everybody else in this country.  Well, read it. I am not teaching you English. Read it.  Well, read it again. It was a statement, and perfectly plain English. Read it again. . . .  I cannot tell you because I have not seen the Congressional leaders yet. Most of them are away and I suppose they will be back on Monday, and I shall see them then. . . .  I would not put it that way. You see, the Priorities Board would not take up things like completed articles, among them planes, which is a completed article. They will take up, in the first instance, certain component parts, of which there might be shortages, that go into a completed article. In other words, suppose, for the sake of argument, there were orders for 12,000 planes. First, they would look into the question of the manufacturing facilities, the buildings and the labor, skilled labor, and the assembly end of it, and the putting together of the thing, and then they would say, "Where are bottlenecks? What are we short of?" Now, there might be some essential things we were short of, especially raw materials, so far as getting them up to the line on time. Well, just for example, just trying to illustrate, yesterday we talked about the steel situation. Probably, through the winter, until next spring when the Great Lakes are open again, there won't be any ingot shortage. In other words, there is enough ore on hand to make ingots - to keep that going. On the other hand, there might be a shortage of manufacturing facilities for some steel process after the ingots are all melted down. There might be a shortage of rolling facilities, or stamping facilities, or something of that kind. So that is what the Priorities Board is doing at the present time, to check on the primal bottlenecks at the bottom of the line.  Not yet; it is being studied.  No. He is carrying on and giving us some very valuable information.  We are just talking. He probably will be in touch with me for the next few weeks on information he has and advice.  I think they were getting on pretty well. I don't pretend to be an expert; but, having started in on the problem of industrial output in the year 1913, I know some of the major questions that ought to be asked in manufacturing plants to bring out things.  They are going ahead with that. They are turning out more and more of certain types of steel, and we are studying the putting in of manufacturing of other types of steel out there. For instance, you take this new plant up on the Columbia River. It is an aluminum plant and it is hoped that they will build not only the aluminum billets that they will make out there, but that they will do the manufacturing there instead of shipping them east and then shipping the finished aluminum back west again.   Well, that has nothing to do with priority.  Probably come up through the Army and Navy to me, I suppose. It has in the past.  No. I will tell you, there is one thing which you might as well print. I think it is all right. I am very often called "The rule of thumb man." Quite a long while ago, about three weeks, four weeks ago, there came a question about munitions of various kinds for Canada and Great Britain, as they came of[ the line, where we both needed the same thing.  And I laid down a rule of thumb, which is only a general rule and, of course, is absolutely subject to exceptions. And the rule is a 50-50 rule. In other words, we take half; they take half.  Yes, yes.  As they come off the line, I should say yes, the new ones.  Yes and no. In other words, we might need more than the fifty per cent for a while, or there might be some article that we needed less than fifty per cent for the next few months. But, as I say, it is only a rule of thumb, subject to many exceptions in the case of an individual article.  I should say a little bit. I think before that it was perhaps 55-45 and now it is 50-50.  Yes.  I think that the armies of both countries have been carrying on studies, joint studies. Didn't we have the chief of staff of the Mexican Army up here?  I never even heard of it; never even read it. The same way, there was a U. P. report this morning of some kind of agreement - I don't know what it said; I think it said, "High official sources in London," and I am quite sure it did not come from high official sources in London- about an agreement among Great Britain, Australia and the United States. I am quite sure it did not come from high sources.  Yes. I am afraid it was just another one.  I should say the report did not come from any high official sources. We will confine ourselves to that.  I don't know, George ; I never heard of it.  No. The last I heard about that was when I went to the aviation plant that day. As we came back, you known, from Aberdeen, the Governor of Maryland  told me that he had a board or something that was looking into the question. He said he would let me know about it as soon as they made a report. I have not heard anything since then. 
