 I don't think I have any news. Anybody got any news?  Oh, no; because if I start commenting on one, you boys will be asking me about two or three every Tuesday and two or three every Friday; and you merely start a chain. Don't let's start one of those chains now.  No, I haven't done anything about it. That's about all there is.  Yes.   No.  No, I haven't even asked them; and he doesn't know, either.  No - that he has been selected. Isn't that an awful mystery? You could almost write an Oppenheim novel around that - probably will, so it's all right!    Yes - before you finish your question- it would.   Don't do any guessing; because I haven't mentioned this to anybody at all - not even to myself out loud.   Down East they would say, "You don't say!"(Continued laughter)  Stocking up - that's all. Mercury is one of those metals that we produce in very limited quantities ourselves, and it's on that list of metals - mostly metals- that we don't have enough reserve war stocks of, and we have been gradually building them up.  No, except that we are discussing it; that's as far as we have got. There is no plan yet that has been accepted.  Well, it's to give everybody who wants to do something toward defense a method of doing his or her part, no matter where they live - in every State in the Union, every big city, small city, town, farm, and everything else-give them an opportunity to do their share.  Yes, I suppose so; the easiest answer is: "Write me another that you would not put that label on but which would accomplish the same objective." That is a perfectly good answer to all these people. That is not an answer at all, however, to those who talk about plowing under every fourth American child, which I regard as the most untruthful, as the most dastardly, unpatriotic thing that has ever been said . Quote me on that. That really is the rottenest thing that has been said in public life in my generation.  Yes.  Fred's  ears were. "wacky"; he didn't hear it. Foote, read it back, beginning with, "That is not - ."   I said my answer on the question of the label wasn't an answer to this other thing.  No; it was said by three or four people. In other words, it's a good time to kill a proposed slogan, at birth. 
