 Be careful of your facial expressions this morning. You are being photographed.   You must look serious. That is perfect.  You should not laugh. What is everybody coming in for this morning?  I literally have no news this morning. You all know the gravity of the situation. There has been no answer as yet from any of the European countries to the messages that were sent yesterday. I do not think there is anything else.  No. I think the implications that have been made on the air by one or two of my friends were, perhaps, justified.  No.    That soft snicker , that comes from the Press.   No, Russ , I do not think so yet. It is just one of those things - not making any plans ahead, absolutely none. I have not cancelled anything and I have not made any more dates.  Yes, and just the same way with the trip going to Hyde Park on Monday night. That stands subject to further notice.  Not as of today, no.  Oh, I think I made that perfectly clear. Perhaps there was a little confusion on the word "imminent." I always think that imminent carries with it the connotation of certainty and I would not regard the present situation as certain to result in war. There is not much more to be said about calling the Congress. I think we all very devoutly hope that war is not certain.  Nothing more than you have and we all have. In other words, quite frankly, you all know just as much about the situation as I do.  Of course there isn't really much that is new on that. Ever since early September of 1938, we have all been thinking of the steps to be taken in the event that actual war broke out. There has been certain machinery which has been prepared, such as on the financial needs, the bringing back of Americans from war zones and things of that kind. That machinery has been pretty well perfected during the past year and it is a question of its use - pressing the button at the appropriate time. Almost every department of the Government is concerned with that; and probably most of the people I shall see and talk to today from the departments will refer to the use of that machinery if it becomes necessary.  No, nobody in mind.  I would not say maximum. I would say better than it has been at any time in the past. Nothing is ever perfect. . . .  Not if the general world situation remains next Monday as it is today.  No. I say, if it is as it is today next Monday, I shall stay here.  I don't think I can go over it again. I tried to make it clear. And, after all, compared with today's news, that is, at the present time, a rather minor factor in the world news. There are other things more important today.  I think that is a very, very excellent suggestion. And to have reached the half century mark! Do you remember when we reached the half century mark? There is one thing we can tell him: We feel younger today than we did then, so that is at least -   I am just holding a little hope out to him. It is always darkest just before the dawn.  I think the fifties are pretty good, don't you? 
