 You people are becoming very popular. I am going to charge admission pretty soon. I have to pay some income tax - so I must charge admission to the audience here if they want to see and hear you all. Think that is a good idea?  No, melodrama.  Yes, yes. MR. DONALDSON: All in.  I have enough to keep you busy for three or four hours. The first is the signing of the order this morning creating the Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply, under the Office for Emergency Management, to be headed by Mr.  Henderson. This has been worked out with the approval of O.P.M. It continues and emphasizes the protection of the consumer, and it provides for programs to allocate what we call residual supply of materials among the competing civilian demands- I would say what we call the consumer- after the military requirements are satisfied. It - among other things - it merges the existing offices under the National Defense Advisory Commission of seven- the old one - it merges two of those offices and in effect puts them together using the staffs of those two offices. One is Mr. Henderson's office of Price Stabilization, and the other is Miss  Elliott's office of Consumer Protection - puts those two together. Well, that means essentially out of the original organization which of course was a temporary one - to get things started- out of those seven original offices, five have now been consolidated and it leaves only two out of the original seven- the Agriculture Division and the Transportation Division - which have not yet been consolidated into the larger picture; and we are now studying exactly where those two would fit in the developed picture. In other words, whether they would come in under the Office for Emergency Management, or whether they would work in through other agencies of the Government. In this Order there are a great many statutes that are referred to. It is a technical matter, but if anything occurs to you on reading the Order - to what all these section references are - Leon will have a statement or explanation of what the older statutes are. I think that about covers it. I don't think there is any use in going into detail.  As far as the laws go.   In other words, until you have read the Order, I don't think there is any use talking about it.  As far as I know. . . .  No, no. I would like to see them very much. Is there any scandal about them?   Not yet.  Just another story. It has been going on for eight years, so it's all right.  No. no. Then, number two. Are you ready for number two? We are going to do a little jumping now. I have signed the Act, or rather the Joint Resolution - S. J. Resolution 7, affirming and approving non-recognition of the transfer of any geographic region in this hemisphere from one non-American power to another non-American power, and providing for consultation with other American Republics, in the event that such transfers should appear likely. You are all familiar with that. It has been duly signed and is now a law. You are familiar with the Danish agreement that was entered into. You know the reasons for it. You know the fact that Greenland is considered very definitely part of the Western Hemisphere and has the same status, both under the Monroe Doctrine and the various agreements that have been made by the American Republics, as at other places, such as Martinique, Guadeloupe, British Guiana, Trinidad, and so forth and so on. This Resolution of the Senate affirms that as the American policy.  They all know about it. Then, two proclamations, along the same general question of war. The first is the proclamation of a state of war between Germany and Italy on the one side and Yugoslavia on the other. The other is the proclamation which revokes the combat area previously set forth and covering the mouth of the Red. Sea and the Gulf of Aden. At that time the original proclamation did not cover the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden in so many words, but it set up a small - what you might call a Arabian "stopper" from the eastern-most tip of Africa to the coast. In other words, you could go into the Red Sea without going through that area, and that area has now been revoked as a combat area, in effect making the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea open to commerce like any other non-combat zone.  I just said that you have taken the "stopper" out.  I have just said they have taken the "stopper"out.  No.  No. Not the Canal itself.  It covers the Mediterranean.  I don't know. I haven't got a large-scale map here. I don't think it is a very practical question. I think they could go.   - through Ismailia.   What are the high seas? What are the high seas? The high seas are everything except things in the combat zone.   In other words, the high seas. What is Buenos Aires?  No, not for a belligerent, but for a neutral power.  Yes. . . .  Well, I just said it isn't really a practical question. The Suez Canal, in the first place, is in Egypt, and the two ports - I will have to teach you geography, Paul . I will have to learn some geography myself. Port Said is, as I remember it, at the Mediterranean end, and I think it is called Ismailia that is at the other end, and I think there is a railroad along the Canal between those two places. Now, I haven't the faintest idea as to whether a ship would go through the Canal in order to discharge at Port Said, or would go alongside of Ismailia, and the stuff go across the Isthmus by rail.  Oh, yes. I am not fully familiar with geography to be able to tell you off hand whether the individual dock at Port Said is in the Mediterranean, or whether it is in the Canal you see. I don't know. Never been there.  Yes, yes.  Yes, yes.  I don't know. That brings up other questions of international law. I would hesitate very much to say yes or no on that. You get things like a continuous voyage- and if you will read John Bassett Moore's five volumes you will find the House has been on all four sides of that subject. . . .  I don't think so - we don't buy headaches unless we have to. . . . 
