  No.  Nothing to say on it, Constantine .  Not yet. That is why, at this particular time, I am not giving out the actual text. I can tell you - what shall I say? - the chronology of it. On Monday of this week we all began to worry about the situation in the Baltic because it looked as if it might be heading towards an extension of wars. On Tuesday several representatives of Scandinavian Nations, as you know, saw the Secretary of State and some of them came in to tell me that they also were very much concerned. There was, at no time, any suggestion of joint action on our part with them. That was Tuesday. Wednesday - I drafted Wednesday morning a personal message to President Kalinin. I waited until the Secretary of State got back Wednesday afternoon, around two o'clock; and we edited it a little. It still remained a purely personal message from me to President Kalinin, a message which, as the State Department said yesterday, expressed the hope that nothing would be done which would disturb the peaceful relations in the Baltic or the independence of Finland. That was sent of[ on Wednesday afternoon. Of course, obviously, since it was intended merely as an expression of our interest and hope, it was not given to the Press. I know you, all of you, ninety-nine per cent of you, will understand why - because the action had not been completed. It was not until Thursday, yesterday, that the message was actually delivered. I am not making the text of it public at this time, because I do not want to do anything that would let it be assumed or construed as being, in any way, a pressure move on our part. That is the easiest way of putting it. Now you have the gist of the message, and pretty soon you will probably have the text of the message.  Oh, there will undoubtedly be an acknowledgment, at least.  Yes. They are coming in on the seventeenth, Tuesday.  Yes, because one of them does not get in until Monday, Monday afternoon. I am having them to lunch at the White House on Tuesday. That might be called the opening meeting-the lunch will be-and then, at the end of the lunch, I shall probably read them a little something, a message of some kind that you will have copies of. Then, after the lunch, they will go over to the State Department and go into session.  No.  Yes.  There is no news on that; and I suppose that is a very good example of our real, honest efforts to tell the Press everything that we can, properly. Necessarily - and again I know that ninety-nine per cent of you will understand it- it means that we are not giving to the Press unverified rumors. There are all kinds of rumors that come in off our coasts and from the West Indies and Central and South America every day; and we do not give them out unless we believe that they have been fully verified. There was a rumor on this Italian tanker thing, the story I read this morning. It is not in verifiable form; and therefore I have said nothing about it, and I cannot say anything about it. It is a very good illustration. The stories that we have given out about the non-American submarines and other ships are stories that we believe to have been fully verified. A great many of them come up. A fisherman comes in and says, "I saw a submarine." Well, we do not give that out as a fact. I am trying to confine our statements to things we really, honestly know about.  Not in any shape, manner or form.  Yes, that is true. . . .  Well, it is a matter which has been under study for three years, and is definitely not only under continued study, but, in the case of one or two countries, it has almost reached a negotiation stage. I cannot say anything more because it has not actually reached the negotiation stage. 
