 I actually have something today. Number one: Admiral Leahy has been ordered to active duty, and to be Chief of Staff to the Commander in Chief. He takes on the duties immediately. Then number two: I have here the report of William R. Boyd, Jr., Chairman of the Petroleum Industry War Council, the gist of which is that they have collected during this scrap rubber drive 454,155 tons of scrap rubber, which is a net addition to the Government's stock pile. I only just got it this minute. Number three: The Secretary of State  was in this morning, and I went over with him a speech which he is going to deliver on the air, I hope in the next two or three days, on the general subject of the seriousness of the war, what the winning of the war means, what victory will mean to human security, and liberty, and civilization, including the seriousness of all that those things mean to every man, woman, and child, not only in this country but throughout the world. And he showed me the draft of what he is going to say, and all I can say is that it is a very able and conclusive summary of the present world situation. And as I say, that will be delivered in the course of the next two or three days.  Chief of Staff. I think that's all that's necessary.  I haven't got the foggiest idea; and it has nothing to do with the "price of eggs.". . .  I wouldn't tell you if I - I wouldn't say if I could. I won't tell you. Obviously, the question shouldn't be asked or answered.  No. . . .  Use it.   That will be almost impossible.   Well, put it this way: whatever's necessary from the point of view of the Commander in Chief. Now, as a matter of fact, I wouldn't go guessing around about things, in assigning more importance to this than it really deserves. The reason I answered the other question that way was that, of course, I do spend an awful lot of time on it, from the American point of view. And at the same time, in so doing, there are all kinds of things that I have to read, all kinds of opinions that I have to get, and do get, and it takes a very long time. It takes a great deal of time, which after a pretty careful survey for seven months, I should say I should be helped to save, by somebody else doing an awful lot of legwork, and indexing work, and summarizing work, and at the same time somebody in whose judgment I have got a good deal of real confidence. And it is going to save me a great many hours of work and all kinds of tasks - instead of doing them myself, finding out about things - if I can get somebody else to do the leg-work. . . .   No. An order - an order to duty. Just a naval order, that's all.   To the Commander in Chief.(Laughter)  No. To the Commander in Chief.   YOU see, the Army has a Chief of Staff of the Army, and the Navy has the equivalent Chief of Operations of the Navy, which is practically the same thing as the Chief of Staff.   Yes.  I hope so. I hope so.  I don't know yet. I haven't worked out the schedule. Some of them, maybe.  You mean this Congressional Message?  Well, it will relate to what I described on back-Oh, what was it? - the twenty-seventh of April domestically, as one of the very great essentials in the war, to keep a thumb on the cost of living, because that goes into every home and every club in the country.  Oh, no. Oh, no. This is the principal domestic problem in carrying on the war. Of course a lot of other things are dependent on it, that's true. This is the first real essential.  The second one.  That's about all I can say.  I gave you plenty today. 
