 I haven't got any news.  Wasn't that denied?  State Department? I think so.  Well, I think they said something in a more polite form than that.  I wouldn't bring it up again. I think it's contentious. I found a new word when I was away: contentious.  I wouldn't bring it up. There is nothing in that. . . . MAY CRAIG: Mr. President, this is a contentious question, but I would like a serious answer.   You would find it awful hard to get, May. MAY CRAIG: There's a good deal of question as to whether you are going right or left politically, and I would like your opinion on which way you are going?  I am going down the whole line a little left of center. I think that was answered, that question, eleven and a half years ago, and still holds.   That's right.   No, no. No. Keep right along a little to the left of center, which includes winning the war. That's not much of an answer, is it? MAY CRAIG: No.   However, you have broken the ice, May.  Very well.  I call myself a little left of center. I have got a lot of people in the Administration - oh, I know some of them are extreme right and extreme left, and everything else - a lot of people in the Administration, and I cannot vouch for them all. They work out pretty well, on the whole. Just think, this crowd here in this room - my gracious, you will find every opinion between left and extreme right.  I saw that. Yes. A highly speculative story.  I said it's highly - highly - what? - what was the word I used about it? - speculative.  I know you would. So would I. You are not the only one.   And you are exactly the same age as I am.  Now, do you feel that you are getting more conservative? MR. GODWIN: I think I am.  Well, that's bad. You must be older than I am.(Laughter) Old age hasn't crept up on me yet. You ought to be careful. You ought to watch that; it's a serious thing when it happens ....  Nobody ever signed the Atlantic Charter. Now that's an amazing statement.  Well, you're thinking in awfully - oh, what will I say?- banal phrases and thought. There isn't any copy of the Atlantic Charter, so far as I know. I haven't got one. The British haven't got one. The nearest thing you will get is the radio operator on the Augusta and on the Prince o[ Wales. That's the nearest thing you will come to it. It's one of the things that was agreed to on board ship, and there was no formal document. And the aides were directed to have the scribbled thing, which had a great many corrections, some I suppose in Mr. Churchill's handwriting, and some in mine, and some in Sir Alec Cadogan's handwriting, some in scraps of paper, some in Sumner Welles's handwriting - and the aides were directed to have it sent off to the British Government, and to the United States Government, and released to the press. That is the Atlantic Charter.   Oh, yes.  Yes, that was done on the first of January, 1942, and that's all signed. There was one amusing thing that happened to it. The original was, I think, typewritten in the State Department. And finally, on the first of January, 1942, the Ambassadors came in a great part of that day. We had two or three sessions. And we all signed up. And then a little later on Brazil and a couple of other countries signed, over in the Dining Room in the White House, which was all decorated with flags. That's where I got caught. Nobody caught on. The press was there, though. And the Brazilian Ambassador was sitting on my right, and the copy wasn't there! I delivered a speech, and then asked the signatory powers to sign. But there was nothing to sign. It was in the Department safe, and the keeper of the Department safe who knew the combination was out in Bethesda, which didn't help at all. And I said all right, we haven't got the document for you to sign; and I wrote out longhand very simple words: we hereby approve and join in the Declaration by the United Nations set up on the first of January last. But before writing it, I looked for a pen, and there wasn't any pen! -  - because the pen wouldn't work-didn't have any ink in it. It finally ended by my borrowing the pen - I used really strong language - luckily I wasn't on the air-  - as to the lack of pens, and I borrowed the fountain pen of the Mexican Ambassador.   What Statement to the press?  Yes.  It isn't a formal document. He  has got a lot of his handwriting - some of mine - in it, and I don't know where it is now.  Oh, I think it's probable, in time, they will find some documents and signatures. The spirit still is there, sir?  Well, we all agreed on it, that's all I know. I have got some memoranda that were signed by the British Prime Minister, but it wasn't the complete document. It isn't considered signed by us both.  It was signed in substance. There is no formal document - complete document- signed by us both. There are memoranda to the people there and to the radio people.   And sent for the radio man and said put this on the air. That's all.  No, except from the point of view of sightseers in Washington. I think that they will like to see it, perhaps not so much as the Declaration of Independence or the Constitution of the United States. Well, if you wanted to exhibit it, there isn't any good reason we can't. 
