MR. EARLY: Tremendous conference.  Well, fine. There's darn little news, except that I haven't finished my speech.  Pretty nearly finished though. That's old stuff . That's the third draft. I am now completing the fifth copy. MR. DONALDSON: All in.  I don't think I have anything on operations. I think - I don't know whether you have had this before. There was an attack this morning on Clark Field in the Philippines, resulting in some officer and soldier casualties; and General MacArthur is trying to get further information. That was early this morning.  Not personally on the telephone. He has been telephoning two or three times to the Chief of Staff. . . .  Yes. I think I can. It was a conference - of course O.P.M. was there also, and several other agencies. I should say that there were, you might say, two concurrent policies that were agreed on. The first was, on the present program, which is now getting into full production, to go ahead with a speed-up of it. Well, that involves, of course, probably working seven days a week, and pushing the speed of the existing program to such an extent that we will get a great many more actual deliveries in the calendar year 1942 than the present program calls for. Then the other policy that comes with it is to enter into a still greater expansion of plants, which means new plants and additions to old plants, thereby increasing the total volume of production as fast as that can be attained. In other words, a speeding up, and an increase of totals, working toward an all-out effort. Of course, a great many other things will form a component part of that phrase - an "all-out effort."   We also talked about certain things called priorities, and as you will see from what I say tonight, there is not at this time any shortage in foodstuffs. In other words, there is enough for all of us, and enough left over to help the food situation among those who are fighting against the same evil that we are fighting against. On a very large number of articles in normal civilian use, there is also no shortage at the present time for civilian use, or for defense purposes. There is, however, for this new program, a very great shortage in most metals, and it seems clear that in putting the program into effect we shall have to do two things. The first is to increase the original output of the raw material or metals, and the second is to divert from civilian use to defense needs at least 50 percent - at least half - of all metals which during this past year have been going to civilian and not defense purposes. It means that people will have to do without a great many metal things, which they have been able to get up to this time.  Oh, I don't think you can put it that way, because after all, if I said it would end it, then you would come back at me a month or two from now and say, "How about these people that have been thrown out of work temporarily while they were retooling the factory?" You see?   Not permanent. It's just like the usual slump in the automobile business, you know. About every summer they stop working for a month to get the tools for the new models out. Well, there may be something like that occurring in various plants, not only automobile but lots of other things, where they are retooling for defense purposes ....  I am. And that is all I can say. Whether it would be an unofficial off-the-record, or an official conference, I haven't got the slightest idea. I am giving it consideration. Don't write it up as meaning this, that, or the other thing, because frankly I don't know ....  I would say this: I am going to give, all of us are going to give everything to the public, on two conditions. All information has to conform with two obvious conditions before it can be given out. The first is that it is accurate. Well, I should think that would seem fairly obvious. And the second is that in giving it out it does not give aid and comfort to the enemy. And I should think that those two conditions ought to be put up in every office in Washington.  In Washington. That includes newspaper offices as well as department offices.  Oh, but are you sure that it conforms to both conditions?  Who told you that?  Well, then, you can't assume that the information has conformed to the two conditions.   Oh, that has got to be determined by the higher officers - the Army and Navy.  I think that is probably correct.  It means that you have got to wait - sit and wait on this information, because you can't determine whether certain information conforms to those two principles. We can't leave that determination in the hands of a third assistant - what - Captain or Major in the Army, or a Lieutenant Commander in the Navy, who is a third or fourth assistant to the officer. It has got to come from the top.  Oh, but lots of these things may be matters of record. It does not mean that they conform.  Certainly not. You are going to get it as soon as the information conforms to those two principles. Just as soon. Now that is perfectly easy. That is a very simple rule to go by. It has got to be accurate. In other words, it has got to have been proved. It can't be a flash of what somebody thinks in the matter. I want it to be an accurate record. Now that is the first thing. Now the mere fact that one bureau in one Department gets a flash, for example - I should think as a matter of fact mind you, this is war - this ought to be checked before that one bureau gets it out. It should be checked by somebody in authority. And then the second thing is that it will not be information that will help the enemy. Now you fellows can't determine that. The papers are not running the war. The Army and Navy have got to determine that. . . .  How do I know? How do you know? How does the person reporting it know?  And neither does the person starting the report.  And neither does the person starting the report have any information. You have to remember that.  No, no. It depends on whether the giving out is of aid and comfort to the enemy.  No. Army and Navy.  No. They work together very closely.  Yes -  or jointly.  Well, there isn't in London, for instance. They have consultations first, and they give out in London war communiques to the public. It is divided, as I remember it, into three different kinds of communiques. One is Army, one is Air, and one is Navy. And I think in London the way they have worked it out, to apparently the satisfaction of everybody-the press too - those are, each one of them, broken down into general fields. For instance, on the Navy end, it's- there is a field called the Mediterranean field, another one called the Atlantic, and I suppose now there will be another- the Far East. And in the Air end, there are three fields there at the present time. There is the Libyan field, the Mediterranean, and the German field; and the domestic field. It seems to work out all right. Then of course, before they are all given out, the three fighting arms over there- we have only two- talk it over between them, and see that they don't clash in what they give out ....  It is awfully hard to answer it. Talk to Steve  about this .... What we want is to get the news out as soon as we can, subject to the two qualifications, and do it in the most convenient way. In other words, our objectives are exactly alike. It is going to work all right. 
