 Please be seated.   I have appointed a Committee on Government Contract Compliance, with Dwight Palmer as Chairman; James B. Casey; Dowdal H. Davis; Irving Engel-- 
 D-o-w-d-a-l, H. Davis; Irving Engel; Oliver Hill; George Meany.  And this has been mimeographed and you will have a copy of it.  Mr. Short: That second name was James B. Carey, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. He is Secretary-Treasurer--James B. Carey; but you will have copies of this, so there won't be any errors. 1 1 For the President's statement upon signing Executive Order 10308 establishing the Committee on Government Contract Compliance, see 1951 volume, this series, Item 299.  The Committee was composed of the following members representing the public: Dwight R. G. Palmer, chairman of the board, General Cable Corp., who served as Chairman; James B. Carey, secretary-treasurer, Congress of Industrial Organizations; Dowdal H. Davis, general manager, Kansas City Call; Irving M. Engel, chairman, executive committee, American Jewish Committee; Oliver W. Hill, attorney, Richmond, Va.; and George Meany, secretary-treasurer, American Federation of Labor.  In addition to the above-named members the Committee was composed of representatives of five Government agencies: Russell Forbes, Deputy Administrator, General Services Administration, who also represented the Defense Materials Procurement Agency; Michael J. Galvin, Under Secretary of Labor; Everett L. Hollis, General Counsel, Atomic Energy Commission; and John D. Small, Chairman, Munitions Board, Department of Defense.  See also Items 26 , 389.  
 I read five or six papers every morning, and I am.  
 No. 
 It has not.   
 Well, the same situation, as it has always prevailed: I am not ready to make any announcements.  2  Frank E. McKinney, chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
 It doesn't preclude me from anything.  
 He is correct. There will be no change.  
 No, I haven't.  
 This is strictly a Contract Compliance Commission. 
 They are fine gentlemen. The Attorney General will carry out the job that is necessary.  3 James A. Farley, former Postmaster General, and former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Robert P. Patterson, former Secretary of War, and W. Stuart Symington, Administrator of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.  
 Well now, if you can't figure it out, there's no use my trying to.  
 I have no comment. 
 A wonderful man.    4  President of the University of Pennsylvania and former Governor of Minnesota.
 No comment. 
 Well, I will give you the information on my course before there is any Republican nomination, Joe.  5   5  Joseph A. Fox of the Washington Star. Mr. Fox: Thank you, sir.  That means I beat Smitty  6  out of $5.  THE PRESIDENT. You beat him out of $5?  6  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. Mr. Fox: That's the way I read that.  THE PRESIDENT. Why didn't you tell me?   
 Very satisfactory. 
 The communique tells you everything that is necessary to be said.  7   7  See Item 6.  
 That is correct. 
 No, I do not. 
 He will carry it out. And of course whatever is necessary will be done by the law enforcement officer of the Government. 
 Whatever is necessary to be done will be done.  
 I think that the law enforcement officer of the Government is the one to carry out a cleanup, if a cleanup is necessary, and in some places I think it is; and we have cleaned up a lot of places. 
 He has always been a consultant of mine. He is a good Baptist. 
 Well, we will answer that when it becomes necessary.  
 Well, I think I answerer that question back in August, when I said I thought Eisenhower was a grand man. I have the utmost confidence in him, and I gave him one of the most important jobs that this Government has to offer. My ideas and my position with regard to General Eisenhower haven't changed. 
 1948.  8  See 1951 volume, this series, Item 188 . 
 No, it was in 1948. 1948 is the one referred to, I am sure, but go ahead. 
 Here is a transcript of that press conference, and you are entitled to read it. That still stands. 
 Yes, sir. 
 Read it. All you have to do is to read it. 
 Well, we'll let you read it, Tony.  9  .  9  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.
 Tony, read it slowly!   Mr. Vaccaro: This is the question.  "I would like to ask you about another statement. In the General's book 'Crusade in Europe,' he quotes you as having told him, when you were in Europe one time, that there was no position he wanted that you wouldn't help him get, and that specifically included the Presidency in 1948. I would like to know if that applies to 1952 as well as 1948?  "THE PRESIDENT. It certainly does." 
 Yes. I am just as fond of General Eisenhower as I can be. I think he is one of the great men produced by World War II "  THE PRESIDENT.  That is absolutely true, Tony. Go ahead.  Mr. Vaccaro: " and I think I have shown that by giving him the most important job that is available for his ability.  "Q. Mr. President, would that mean that if General Eisenhower wants to be President, you would help him get that job?  "THE PRESIDENT. I didn't say that.   "Q. Well, Mr. President, I would like to know what was--not to cross-examine you, but what were you referring to when you said 'It certainly does' to Bill Lawrence's statement ?  "THE PRESIDENT. Well, you will have to translate that any way you can, Smitty. I am glad "[Loud laughter at the way this was read]  "--as I say, I am very fond of General Eisenhower. I don't think he is a candidate for President on the Democratic ticket--"  THE PRESIDENT.  And he said that, just the other day.  Mr. Vaccaro:  ". and I couldn't very well help him to be a candidate on the Republican ticket, because I don't think that would do him any good.  Anyway, I have another candidate on the Republican ticket.  "Q. Would that be Senator Taft, sir? "It would be."  THE PRESIDENT. There's your answer!  
 Well, Tony is always telling me to go slowly, and I just wanted him to try his own hand at the thing.  
 Yes, I have. He said he would continue as long as it was necessary, or as long as he thought--as I thought he ought to. I have that in writing.  10  Supreme Allied Commander, Europe. 
 I can't answer. 
 I can't answer. 
 That is correct. 
 That is correct. I want to stand in his way at all, because I think very highly of him, and if he wants to get out and have all the mud and rotten eggs and rotten tomatoes thrown at him, that is his business, and I won't stand in his way. 
 Unless he is nominated in which case he will have to be relieved. 
 Not the slightest. I always hoped he would turn out to be a Democrat. 
 He will stay there, I am sure, as long as it is absolutely necessary him to stay. That may be July. 
 I shall not ever relieve General Eisenhower except at his request. 
 I am saying to you that I will not relieve him except at his request. What's on your mind, May?  11   11  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. Mrs. Craig: That brings it down to the nomination of the candidate, because he said he would not ask to be relieved.  THE PRESIDENT. All right, you had better consult him. I have told you what I am going to do. 
 Of course he would. Can't run for President and be the commanding general in Europe. 
 I can't answer that question because I don't know. I hope it will be.  12  William H. Lawrence of the New York Times.
 No. I have been told that--I had been told, at that time, that he was a Democrat. 
 Yes. 
 I was told by a brother of a former Governor of Kansas that in 1918 General Eisenhower was one of the precinct workers for George Hodges when he ran for Governor on the Democratic ticket in Kansas, and was elected. That is all the information I had at that time. 
 George Hodges. 
 H-o-d-g-e-s. 
 Well, I have always been against a one-party system. I think that is the road to communism. 
 When his announcement-- 
 I came to that conclusion after a!] the conversation that had gone on, and I was assured of it in the statement that he made. 
 Well, I tell you, I was thinking about the situation.  
 He will stay on as long as I can keep him there, because I want him to stay. I like him. And he is doing a good job. 
 Well, I might refer you to a historical document in the American Dictionary of Biography. In 1852 a General ran for President. Read that. His name was Winfield Scott. That will give you the answer. 
 No. You are going to have to do your own reading.  I am not going to quote history to you. I will teach you some history. Read! Just read the biography of General Scott. And you might read also the biography of the fellow that beat him. His name was Franklin Pierce, who was a brigadier general in Scott's army. And it is most interesting. Read them both, it will do you good. 
 I didn't say that--I didn't say that. I don't think the country would be good under any Republican.  
 Read the biography and then see what you think. 
 Easily. I have done it before. 
 That I will answer at a later date. 
 That is correct. 
 You ask her. I don't speak for her. I call her "the boss."  
 No.  
 Well, I came to the conclusion, after much thought, that it is the business of the Office of the Attorney General to do the job.  13  See Item 2 .
 I have no comment on that.  14  President of the National Association of Broadcasters. 
 Yes. 
 No. I shall not.  
 No, I will not. You wouldn't have anything to talk about at the next press conference if I answered that.  
 I said under a Republican. I stick to that. 
 I can't answer that because I haven't talked to him about it.  
 I hadn't heard that, and I am extremely sorry to hear that that is true, because he is a great man and has done a wonderful job in Indochina.  15  Gen. Jean de Lattre de Tassigny died in Paris on January 11, 1952. Merriman Smith: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
