 I have no special announcements to make this afternoon. I will try to answer questions.  
 Why, I don't know whether to take it as a trend or not. I expect to appoint people on whose qualifies and qualifications I can depend. 
 I believe I can. I am very sure I can.   
 No. He is Ambassador to Norway, and he is going to stay Ambassador to Norway. 
 I beg your pardon? 
 One of these days I will make an announcement to you, and you will know all about it.  
 I have no intention of going to California. 
 That trip has been only in the discussion stage. We hope to get it arranged for the first part of May, if that is possible. As soon as definite arrangements are made, why, I will announce it to you so you can have plenty of time to pack your grips. 
 There has been some talk on that subject. 
 Nothing has been definitely arranged. 
 No. All this is tentative. As soon as we have the thing sewed up, why, I will announce it to you in a form that you will understand every word of it, so that you will have plenty of time to get ready. 
 I have no intention of going to California. 
 No, not necessarily.  
 No. No, I do not. 
 I hardly think so. If it is, it will be a long-distance speech.   
 I have no comment on that.  
 No. If I have them, I will announce them to you in the beginning. 
 I haven't heard it. But you can hear anything--you can hear all sorts of rumors about anything you want to start. This is the best rumor town in the world. But I hadn't heard that one. That's a new one. 
 I think that was settled by the 79th Congress, and then, you know, it was somewhat balled up by the 80th Congress; but that ruling of the 79th was my recommendation and still stands--civilian control of atomic energy.  
 Yes, I have, and I am very much pleased with the attitude of the European correspondents and editors who have been writing those articles. I think they are on the right track.  
 I didn't understand the question. 
 Yes, I think he is opposed to it, but he told me the other day he was going to get a rule and let the House vote on it, which I hope he will do.  1 See Item 29 .  
 I recommended it to them three different times. 
 That's all right--that's all right.  
 I have been urging that that be brought out for--let me see--it has been about 5 years now, hasn't it? I am still urging it.  
 I can't settle details and arguments.-- 
 --I can't settle details and arguments between legislators as to how a bill is to be worded. I have expressed my opinion time and again on aid to education, and that opinion still stands as it was in the message each time.  
 Well, no, I have no observations to make on it. I think the Senate committee is handling the situation very well.  
 He has been in touch with me that he is sure to get the bill out ever since the Senate bill went over to the House. I haven't had a recent conversation with him on the subject individually.  
 No, I haven't. That is the business of the British. I have no comment to make on their internal private affairs.  
 The "Doc" suggested a new medicine which he said is very good, so it will be available. 
 Well, it's a kind of tablet, about as big as your thumbnail. That could be followed by certain liquid refreshment.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're entirely welcome.
