 Please be seated.  I have no particular announcements to make to you. I will try to answer questions.  
 No comment.  1 General MacArthur addressed the Massachusetts Legislature in Boston on July 25. The text of his speech appears in the Congressional Record, vol. 97, p. A4721.  
 No, I haven't. All I know about it is what I have seen in the paper. I am looking into it. 
 I know nothing about it, only what I have seen in the paper. I can't comment until I know the facts, and I don't believe it until I know them myself. 2  2 For a statement by the President on Democratic National Chairman William M. Boyle, Jr., and certain RFC loans to the American Lithofold Corporation, see Item 188 .  
 I am still hopeful that the St. Lawrence Seaway will come out on the floor of the House.  
 Still no comment.  
 Yes--I know what you are going to say. Go ahead and finish it so that it will be for the record. 
 No. No. I will say no to that. 
 Never. Never. 
 Never. I wouldn't let them testify in the first place, if I felt that way about it. 
 Well, they can't testify unless I let them.  
 Yes, it does.  3 On July 26 delegations representing the United Nations Command and the Communist forces, meeting at Kaesong, Korea, agreed upon a five-point agenda for the regulation of the military armistice conference. U.N. commander Matthew B. Ridgway's announcement of the agreement, including the outlined agenda, appears in the Department of State Bulletin .  
 Well, I can't comment on that bill until it is on my desk, but the housing situation is being torn all to pieces in the House--the public housing proposition-and they might endeavor to knock it out again in the bill that was passed in the Senate, but I don't know what will happen when it comes up to me. I will comment on it when it does. 4  4 For the President's statement upon signing the Defense Production Act Amendments of 1951, see Item 176.  
 I will answer that letter in due course, then I will give them both out. I don't answer letters that are published in the paper. I always am courteous when I receive a letter. I will answer it, and when Murray has had a chance to get my views, then I will give it to you? 5  5 For the President's letter to CIO President Philip Murray on the flood control problem in the Missouri River Basin, see Item 183. 
 No comment--no comment. You know how I stand on MVA, so there is no comment on that.  
 No, there is no comment, only I think Jake went off half-cocked once before in the history of the country.  
 Yes.  
 The matter is pending in the courts, and I never comment on things that are pending in the courts.  
 No, I haven't. I will announce it just as soon as I do find one.  
 The Psychological Warfare Board is just what it says. That board is for the purpose of coordinating things that will psychologically help win the peace. I think Gordon Gray can give you a detailed statement on the subject that will cover every phase of it. I would have to talk all afternoon to do that. 
 Go ahead. 
 Yes. It is a part of the Central Intelligence Agency.  
 You know, I am afraid that I just can't do anything for your thought factory on that!  
 Can't answer that one either.  
 I haven't heard about it. 
 I say I haven't heard about it.  
 No, I cannot. I don't like to discuss things like that when the great man is lying in his coffin. 6  6 Admiral Forrest P. Sherman, Chief of Naval Operations, died in Naples, Italy, on July 22. He had just completed a mission to Spain where he discussed European defense measures with Generalissimo Francisco Franco. 
 I said I don't like to discuss things like that when the man who held the place before is lying in his coffin. 
 No, I can't think of a thing, thank you very much.  Reporter: Well, thank you, sir.
