 I have no special announcements to make this morning. I will do my best to answer questions.  
 Senator Neely stopped by on his way to the Senate this morning. 
 He just was talking to me about the general legislative situation. 
 No, no. He wasn't even mentioned.  
 I will answer that question when the bill comes before me.  
 Yes, I will have to pass it up, I am sorry to say. 
 Yes. 
 No comment. 
 He wanted to know if I had any comment on the release of Eisler. I said I had no comment.  
 I was consulted about the appointment of the Commission. That is as far as it went. 
 Well now, we can tell more about that when the Commission does its work. That's what the Commission was appointed for.  
 No, I haven't.  
 They have been going up regularly. 
 I sent a thousand one day, and they have been going up in batches whenever they were ready. 
 I suppose so. 
 There has been no change in the situation.  
 I will announce it when we are ready to make the appointment.  
 I will not. I do not favor it.  
 Yes, I have had several women under consideration for Ambassadors to several countries, but I am not ready to make an announcement yet.  
 I didn't understand the question? 
 No. The "must" list was included in three very large messages which I sent to the Congress, one on the State of the Union, one on the budget, and one on economics; and that is the "must" list. 
 That is the "must" list for the Congress, so far as I am concerned. 
 Well now, you can't very well come to that conclusion, Miss May, 1  at all.  You can't come to that conclusion, because you never can comment on the work of a session of Congress until it's over.  1 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  
 Yes--and perhaps longer.  
 I mean that literally, for this year.  
 Well, I took a 3-day vacation the other day, and I may take some 3-day vacations like that; but I am going to stay here until my work is as nearly completed as it can possibly be. 
 I have no vacation plans. But, if I do have any, I will give you all plenty of notice so that you can get your trunks packed. 
 Well, that train trip was not in contemplation for immediate use. It is still on the shelf and can be revived if it is necessary. 
 No, definitely not. 
 Yes it is--very possible. It might not be necessary. 
 Well, now you are going quite a way into the future. I think you had better let next year take care of itself.  Reporter: Well, thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome, Note: President Truman's one hundred and eightyfourth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, June 2, 1949. 
