 Please be seated.  I have no special announcements to make. I made the only announcement I had today, already. So if you want to ask me questions, I will try to answer them.  
 The health report. 1   1  See Item 352.  
 No, I haven't. I expressed my opinion last week. I have nothing to add to it, and nothing to take back.  
 Yes. I wonder if the gentleman has examined the requests by the Budget, and the appropriations that finally came out? If I remember correctly, we asked for some 400-odd million in the last budget, and we got less than 30 million-I think 29 million and something. And if the gentleman will go down and work with the Congress as hard as he is working in the press right there, we might have an improved situation.  2  Lt. Gen. Henry Larsen.  
 I said I had nothing to add to it and nothing to take away from it. That's all the comment I made.  3  See Item 345 . 
 I said--I didn't mention--I didn't mention that at all. I said I had said what I had to say last week, and had nothing to add to it and nothing to take away from it. That's all I said. 
 Oh, yes. My opinion hasn't changed.  
 No, I haven't. 
 I hadn't anticipated that he would. 
 No, I had a full, fair report on it from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 4  as it should be done.  4  General of the Army Omar N. Bradley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  
 No. I wish I could. When I get to the point where I can give you the inside dope on the plans, I will give them to you.  I have had so much to do that I haven't had a chance to make any arrangements.  
 I haven't made up my mind yet.  I will send three messages to Congress, but I don't know whether I will go down in person or not.  
 Well, I never have been in the habit of commenting on the Korean situation in the press conference, and I don't want to start now. 
 Well, I think events will show that situation up all right.  
 I told him I hadn't made up my mind. 
 Well, I haven't made up my mind yet. I may, and I may not. 
 Well, if you will read the Constitution, it says the President shall from time to time inform the Congress on the "State of the Union." It has been customary to do that at the opening of every Congress each year.
 That's right. 
 That's correct. 
 As to whether I will go down in person or not. 
 NO. 
 Yes, I think I have gone nearly every time. I don't remember having missed any State of the Union Messages. 
 Well, I may be able to tell them everything without having to go down there and bore them a little bit. You see, it will be a new Congress, and they will be busy organizing. They won't be so much interested in the President that is going out as they will in the one that is coming in.  
 Economic. They come in that order: State of the Union, Budget, and Economic. 5   5  See Items 366, 367, 376. 
 It's already underway on all of them. They will be ready in ample time to be presented by the 20th of January.  
 Does everybody want to have a press conference on Christmas Day ?   
 I think that that will be covered amply and thoroughly in the Message on the State of the Union, and I would rather not do it at a press conference.  
 I am not familiar enough with the case to make any comment on it.  6  See Item 362.  
 No comment. Wait and read my message on that subject. It will be out pretty soon. It will be in the Budget.  
 Well, I can't comment on that, because I haven't any evidence on which to comment; and I would rather not comment at this time. At the right time I will comment on it, I think. 
 The matter automatically goes to the head of the Department. If Secretary Acheson wants to confer with me on it, why it's all right. 
 Its perfectly all right with me. I haven't had any conversation with him on the subject.  
 Of course. You see, he is riding down the Avenue with me. I am the President until he is sworn in.  
 You see, I am the President until the oath is taken down there on the platform. There was a time in 1948 when there wasn't any President in office. His term was about to expire, and they waited and waited and waited for a long time before they swore me in; but it happened to be that I was the President, so it made no difference. 
 No. He will be the President, and I will be a private citizen.  
 I don't know. I can't answer the question.  7  F. Joseph Donohue, Commissioner of the District of Columbia. 
 I say I don't know. I can't answer the question. You can be sure that if I thought I had the power, it would have been done a long time ago. 
 No, I have nothing to add. I hope you all have a Merry Christmas. Voices: Same to you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. And if you want to have a press conference on Christmas Day, I'll have it for you! 
