 I have no special announcements to make this morning. I thought maybe you might like to ask me some questions that I might be able to answer.  
 I have made up my mind, and I am going to suggest in the reorganization plan after the first of the year, that both be transferred to the Department of Labor. 
 Yes.  
 No. That is a categorical answer.  
 I know nothing about it. I have no comment to make on it. 
 No I haven't. Sorry to say I didn't read Stassen's speech. I read the paper, but I didn't read the speech.  
 It iS going to be rather extensive, but I can't give you the details until it is ready. 
 No. This is inside the Government. This has nothing to do with the reorganization of the departments. These things will be inside the departments-just transfers. It will not affect the Hoover committee at all.  
 I think, if you will read the message which I sent to Congress, it explains fully and carefully exactly what I meant, and I have no further comment to make on the subject.  
 Yes, I can say positively that it will go in, in a couple of days. Everything in that message will be covered by legislation proposed by the administration. 
 Yes, all 10 points will be covered. 
 I haven't given it any thought. In fact, I haven't seen the Republican substitute. The message is what I want, and I want it carried out to the letter. I think anything short of that will be inadequate to do the job. 
 NO. The antitrust laws will be enforced to the limit, as long as I am President. 
 They will cover everything that is necessary to be covered. I can't say positively item for item what it will be, but whatever is necessary to do to make the cost of living come down, that will be included. 
 Yes.  
 NO. NO successor has been chosen. I will announce it as soon as he is chosen.  
 The police state methods are only when they are carried out by a dictator. If the Congress authorizes the carrying out of price controls, and the President is authorized by Congress to carry them out, that is the free government approach to the thing.  
 Just as soon as it is ready. 
 In a short time. I can't give you the exact date. 
 No. It will not go up this week. But I will give you the date. lust as quickly as it is ready, I will give you a copy.  
 There will be no relaxation of the antitrust laws as long as I am President--if I can help it.  
 I will come to that conclusion when I get it ready. I think probably it will be transmitted. It will be too long to read. The Congress wouldn't want to listen to me for a couple of hours, although they listen to each other, sometimes !  
 Oh, about 35 minutes. 
 I never did any filibustering in the Senate. 
 As a general policy, I am opposed to it.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
