 I have no special announcements to make. Most of them have been made. If you have any questions you would like to ask, I will try to answer them.  
 It hasn't come up. I have not--I know nothing about it. I had made no such plan, that's the best way to put it.  
 I had planned to go to Puerto Rico, as you know, but that plan was upset by the message which had to be sent to the Congress. I hope that it will be possible for me to go to Puerto Rico. 
 This year. 
 That has been on the agenda this year, but these things are only in contemplation. I can never know until the announcements are made creating the firm appointment that I will go.  
  No comment--no comment. 
  No comment!  
 No comment.   
 We didn't discuss the labor bill. I don't want to cut the ground from under Congressman Celler. We probably discussed past messages, but we didn't discuss the labor bill. I do not discuss legislation until it's here for me to consider.  
 NO, I have not.  
 I have received no such letter. It may be in the mail, but I haven't received it as yet.  
 Yes. That was announced. Robert Ewing Thomason was the name sent down this afternoon--Congressman from E1 Paso.  
 That is a matter for the National Democratic Committee to decide.  
 The Republican leaders or anyone else has a perfect right to come up and discuss any subject they choose with me. I don't think that there's any comment to be made on the matter in question.  
 Yes, I signed that this morning, I think. 
 When I was in the Senate, I voted for such a bill.  
 I can't--I haven't read it-I can't make any comment on it, because I don't know.  
 The telephone strike is being handled by the Department of Labor.  
 I have a memorandum from the Attorney General which I will be glad to read to you, if you like.  1  Item 77. 
 NO. Here is the memorandum from the Attorney General, and you can get this outside later, if you want it.   "With reference to your inquiry concerning your veto of Senate Joint Resolution 97, I beg to advise:  "The inclusion in the veto message, prepared in the Department, of language stating that 'this type of legislation is novel' is incorrect. Further investigation has disclosed that similar language has been included in previous resolutions.  "There is no question that sections 361, 365, and 366 of the revised statutes did not have to be included in the resolution to accomplish the objective of the sponsor of the resolution. These sections deal with the attorneys in the Department of Justice and those who represent the United States in litigation. In view of this fact, it was my thought that these three sections were inadvertently included in the resolution when it was originally drafted. Certainly this inclusion might be interpreted as an effort to grant authority to the committee counsel to initiate civil or criminal proceedings on behalf of the United States. This duty, as you know, has been placed in the Department of Justice by the Congress. I am sure that the Congress had no intention in this resolution to change this long established practice and the inclusion of these three sections certainly is subject to that interpretation.  "For these reasons, in my opinion, the resolution was properly vetoed." That is signed by the Attorney General. I want to make it perfectly dear that Senator Wheeler did not enter into this thing at all. I have no objection to Senator Wheeler representing that committee or any other committee that he sees fit. I have always been very fond of Senator Wheeler. He and I were the best of friends while I was in the Senate.  
 I am not ready to make an announcement on that. I may be able to make an announcement on it in another week.  
 No comment. No, I have no comment.  
 All I know is what I see in the papers. Seems to be some action being taken in various parts of the country on the subject. I am very much pleased with the action of the merchants in Newburyport, Mass., and I notice there are several other instances of similar action which has been taken.  1  See Item 76.   Mr. Ross : Judge Latta says that the copper bill is not signed yet.  THE PRESIDENT. I see. On that question about that copper bill, Judge Latta says it has come to the White House, but has not been signed as yet.  I had a memorandum on it, I know, and I couldn't remember whether I had signed it or not. The Judge says I have not signed it. 
 I will answer that when it comes to the final decision.  
 All I know is what I saw in the paper. I didn't know it was speculative. 
 Can't recall a veto. The proper thing, I imagine, is to pass the resolution without the objectionable sections in it.  
 I have informed the Senate committee that specific documents that they want from my files I shall always give to them. 
 They have named the specific document that they want. 
 Being gotten for them. One.  
 NO comment on it.  
 I don't know of any necessity for that. I have made all the discussion on prices that it was necessary to have made, in the speech that I made to the AP in New York. That covered the ground so far as I am concerned.  
 General Marshall will make the comment on that when he gets home. 
 General Marshall will make a report, of course, when he returns home. 
 I can't answer that. 
 I can't answer that. I don't know.  
 That's right. 
 The last three sections, yes sir. And the first--if you will study the history of the thing, you will find that the first bill of that sort, in which those three sections are included, was necessary. The other bills which have been subsequently brought up, with inclusion of the three sections, was not necessary, but they were included just as a matter of form. 
 I have made no such suggestion at all. I have talked to nobody about it except right here now. 
 If it complies with the suggestion of the Attorney General. 
 If it complies with this memorandum of the Attorney General, I will sign it. 
 It was sent to the Attorney General's office for consideration and approval. It came from that office approved.  
 No I am not, and there has been no such support. 
 Well, if you--there has been special legislation on wool. 
 Special legislation. I don't think it's good sense even for wool.  
 The best way to find that out is to wait and see. 
 You can make any an interpretation from my speeches you want, but so far as legislation is concerned I don't comment on it until it's here! Reporter: Thank you, Mr. president.
