 Please be seated.   I asked Mr. Paul Walker to be Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, and I am sending down the name of Robert T. Bartley to fill the vacancy. 
 B-a-r-t-l-e-y. 
 H-e-y. 
 Texas, I guess. Yes, he comes from Bonham, Tex. 
 Yes. 
 That's right  1 Speaker of the House of Representatives Sam Rayburn. 
 He's a nephew--I guess. 
 All right--you take that out--he's a nephew. A son of the Speaker's sister. 2   2  Mrs. Samuel E.  Bartley.  
 NO. 
 I will let you know when I get ready.   I understand that we have some visiting newspapermen who have come to Washington to see how the Government works. And another thing that intrigues me is that they are paying their own way.   I want to congratulate you on showing that interest in how the Government works, and I hope you will have a chance to get information that you otherwise couldn't get.  It is a pleasure to me to have you here this morning, and I hope you enjoy the press conference as much as I do. I am ready for questions.  
 That's correct. 
 Sixty-four dollars, please. 
 I can't be responsible for what people say when they go out of my office. This is a free country and they have the right to say whatever they choose. I never tell them what to say.  3  Representative Harold D. Cooley of North Carolina, Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee.  
 I think it is better if the committee transacts its business in the manner in which a committee should transact its business. But that is not my affair. That is a matter which the Congress itself has to pass on. 
 NO, I did not. I heard him make the decision. He made it over the telephone in my office, but I didn't say anything to him about it.  
 He is a very able person. He has made one of the best Governors Illinois ever had. That is one of the best recommendations a man can have for being President. 
 No comment. I can't tell you what he is thinking about. He will tell you, I am sure, when the time comes along.  4 General of the Army Douglas MacArthur.   Joe 5  thinks maybe I ought to tell you a little something about the telephone call.  5  Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President.  A gentleman called Speaker Rayburn and asked if they could use television at the un-American activities hearing in Detroit. And the Speaker's reply--I heard that reply--was that it was against the rules of the House and he would have to rule against it. 
 I was sitting at my desk, and Sam Rayburn was sitting right beside me. 
 We had the Big four meeting, and it was an emergency call. We are always polite in the White House.  
 I didn't make any such implication. That is the business of the Congress itself to make that decision. I can't make it for them. I wouldn't try to influence them in making it. I conducted a lot of committee hearings down there, though, and we didn't make a sideshow of them. 
 I never object to any of my officials appearing before congressional committees. 
 I didn't want to include anything. I just answered the question. 
 He was on the other end of the telephone.  May, 7  aren't you satisfied ?  6  Senator Blair Moody of Michigan, former Washington correspondent for the Detroit News.  7  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  Mrs. Craig: No sir, because my original question--which I thought about very carefully, to close all loopholes--stayed away from the  THE PRESIDENT. I appreciate that. That's perfectly correct. Mrs. Craig: ..... the congressional jurisdiction.  THE PRESIDENT. That's perfectly correct. Mrs. Craig: I thought it stayed absolutely in your own attitude toward your officials appearing before congressional committees with air coverage--  THE PRESIDENT. I don't think you ought to put that "with air coverage" in there. Whenever they have to appear or are invited to appear before congressional committees, they appear. And it is up to the Congress itself to decide on how the mechanism of the committee shall be run. 
 I never have. 
 I never have.  
 The fight is still on. When I start anything I never give up until the last "dog" dies.  
 I hope so. I hope they will. 
 No. 
 That is correct. 
 That is a matter for the Congress to decide on itself. What Senator O'Mahoney and I were discussing was the probability of a reconsideration of their vote by which the Alaska bill was referred back to the committee, and he is working on that now. But that is a matter for senatorial strategy. It is not my business.  
 I'm sorry, I can't answer that question. 
 Why sure.  
 I can't answer that question, for I don't know.  
 I don't join anybody in criticism of anybody else. When I get ready to criticise anybody I do it directly, not by implication.   8 Senator Estes Kefauver, former Chairman of the Senate Committee to Investigate Organized Crime in Interstate Commerce, had allowed the use of radio, television, and newsreel cameras during Committee hearings.  
 Everything is being done that can possibly be done to get Bill out of jail, and I hope they will finally get him out.  9  William N. Oatis, American Associated Press correspondent, who was arrested April 23, 1951, in Prague, Czechoslovakia, and was given a 10-year prison sentence July 4 on a charge of espionage. On May 15, 1953, he was pardoned by the Czechoslovakian Government. 
 No, I can't. Wouldn't do any good to tell you, because we would tell the world then. And what we are trying to do wouldn't work.  
 I haven't been consulted about it in the first place.   Well, well, well!  10  See also Item 28. 
 I do. That is foreclosed.
 You will get the same answers down there that you are getting here.  I hope we will be able to leave for Key West next Friday, if everything holds together--a week from tomorrow.  
 He is a member of the Federal Communications Commission--will be appointed. 
 Walker will be made Chairman. The vacancy was caused by the resignation of Wayne Coy. 
 He takes the vacancy on the Securities and Exchange Commission, and then I appointed-- Mr. Short: FCC, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. I mean Federal Communications Commission. There are so many of them, we get mixed up sometimes.  
 All right. 
 That's the program. That's right. 
 I won't tell you. When I get ready to make it, I will let you all know so you can be there. 
 Well now, I didn't spoil it. I didn't spoil it. 1 didn't ask the question. I don't know what we will do for amusement when that situation is developed to the point where you have the answer. I don't think you will have a good time at the press conference. I am sure I won't have as good a time.   
 A very excellent conference, and a very successful one. Dean Acheson will explain it fully tomorrow night over radio and television. 11 11  The text of the address of Secretary of State Dean Acheson is printed in the Department of State Bulletin . See also Item 48.  
 No. I can't do that, I'm sorry. 
 I can't make the trip.  Merriman Smith, United Press Associations: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. It's all right, Smitty. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninety-sixth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, February 28, 1952. 
