 Please be seated, ladies and gentlemen.   I have a statement that I want to read to you that probably will save you some questions. I will take it real slowly, because the mimeographed copies may not be over here as promptly as they should be, but they will be ready almost immediately after the conference. 
 You're going to take it all down in longhand? 
  "The authors of this suggestion claim that this would be good for the country."  That's all right--whenever I go too fast, I'll stop.   "How our position in the world would be improved by the retirement of Dean Acheson from public life is beyond me. Mr. Acheson has helped shape and carry out our policy of resistance to Communist imperialism. From the time of our sharing of arms with Greece and Turkey nearly 4 years ago, and coming down to the recent moment when he advised me to resist the Communist invasion of South Korea, no official in our Government has been more alive to communism's threat to freedom or more forceful in resisting it.  "At this moment, he is in Brussels representing the United States in setting up a mutual defense against aggression. This has made it possible for me to designate General Eisenhower as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe.  "If communism were to prevail in the world--as it shall not prevail--Dean Acheson would be one of the first, if not the first, to be shot by the enemies of liberty and Christianity.  "These recent attacks on Mr. Acheson are old, in the sense that they are the same false charges" and I emphasize that false charges--"that have been made time and again over a period of months. They have no basis in fact whatever.  "It is the same thing that happened to Seward. President Lincoln was asked by a group of Republicans to dismiss Secretary of State Seward. He refused. So do I refuse to dismiss Secretary Acheson.  "If I did anything else, it would weaken the firm and vigorous position this country has taken against Communist aggression.  "If those groups attacking our foreign policy and Mr. Acheson have any alternative policies to offer, they should disclose them. They owe it to the country. This is a time for hard facts and close thinking. It is not a time for vague charges and pious generalities.  "There are some Republicans who recognize the facts and the true reasons for these attacks on Secretary Acheson, and who do not agree with their colleagues.  "This Nation needs the wisdom of all its people. This is a time of great peril. It is a time for unity, and for real bipartisanship. It is a time for making use of the great talents of men like Dean Acheson.  "Communism--not our own country-would be served if we lost Mr. Acheson." 
 This is it. 
 Well, Mr. Acheson and the leaders of the Congress, General Marshall and myself, and the Secretary of the Treasury, were present with these leaders, and the discussion was very amicable, and there was no objection that I could find to the foreign policy of the United States. That has been a continuing policy since 1939, and I have had four Secretaries of State, and the policy has not changed since I have been President of the United States. Nobody has been quarreling with that policy. These are personalities. The personalities in this last campaign were vicious. There were no issues discussed. People were slandered, and that is what has caused this situation. And I am very sorry for it, because it is not the right way for a two-party system to work.  
 That's the first I've heard of it. There is nothing to it. Mr. Symington has a very important job, which he is filling in a very satisfactory manner, and he is going to stay there. And General Marshall is going to continue to be Secretary of Defense. And Mr. Lovett 2  is going to continue to be his Under Secretary, or Assistant Secretary--whatever his proper name is.  1 W. Stuart Symington, Chairman of the National Security Resources Board.  2  Robert A. Lovett, Deputy Secretary of Defense.  
 I don't think there is any wave of isolationism, outside of the Chicago Tribune and those papers.   
 I haven't read the book, and I have no reason to approve or disapprove of it. Mr. Lowenthal had a perfect right to write any kind of book he wants to.  3  Max Lowenthal, "The Federal Bureau of Investigation," New York: Sloane, 1950. 
 Mr. Hoover has always been well thought of by me.  
 That is correct. That is the way the majority of the mail always runs when the United States gets into trouble. All the people are behind the Government, and they are now; don't let anybody fool you about that.  
 No, it doesn't close the door. It never has been closed. And I think if you read my Thanksgiving proclamation, you will find that I asked for it then. 4  And I am preparing a Christmas proclamation which I think will satisfy you, and the religious leaders, too.  4 On December 5, 1950, Representative F. Edward Hebert of Louisiana sent a letter to the President suggesting that he "call upon the churches of America, Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish, to set aside a Sunday between now and Christmas, to appeal to Almighty God for guidance and wisdom in what I believe to be the Gethsemane of our existence." The letter is printed in the Congressional Record along with the President's reply .  Proclamation 2909 "Thanksgiving Day, 1950," signed by the President on October 19, requested all citizens to give thanks to God and to pray for peace .  
 The law will be enforced.  
 I can't answer the question for I haven't received the telegrams as yet which tell about the agreement, and I can't comment on it until I get all the facts and information, which I will get tomorrow from Dean Acheson when he comes back.  
 The price will go back where the Economic Administrator says it shall go. 
 That is a matter that--we will cross that bridge when we get to it.  
 As commander in chief of the Allied forces in Europe, he has exactly the same position in Europe that MacArthur has in Asia.  5 See Items 308 and 310. 
 Yes. 
 Yes. 
 No, I can't. I can't do that. If I knew I wouldn't tell you. 
 Just as soon as it is possible to get ready. That is the reason for this emergency I have just declared. 
 I talked to him last night on the telephone, and he is coming in to see me, and then he is going to Europe as promptly as possible.  
 Well, I don't know. I had hoped to go on Friday, but whether I will be able to make it or not I can't tell you exactly; but then you fellows might keep your grips packed--you might need them.  
 No, I cannot. That is up to General Eisenhower. 
 He will be the commander in chief of the Allied forces in Europe, at their request. They requested me to appoint a commander in chief of Allied forces in Europe, just as they requested me to appoint a commander in chief of Allied forces in Asia; and that is what I have done. 
 Well, he is also commander in chief of the Allied forces in Asia, to which position he was appointed before the United Nations asked for his services. 
 No, I can't--no, I can't. As I say, if I could I wouldn't tell you. You fellows ought to have some ideas of security the same as I have. 
 All right. 
 I didn't understand the question. Will you please ask it again? 
 You mean Western Hemisphere? 
 That is correct. It is economic, principally. Raw materials and-- Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fortyseventh news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, December 19, 1950. 
