 Please be seated.  I have no statements to make. I will try to answer questions, if there are any.  
 I have no comment. 
 I have no comment. 
 I did not. 
 May, 1  how did you leave the North Pole ?  1  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  Mrs. Craig. Well, we struck a warm spell comparatively, so it was pretty good.  THE PRESIDENT. It must have been a nice trip.  Mrs. Craig. Yes, sir. Very, very informative.  THE PRESIDENT. Tell us about it some day, when we have things that are of no importance on.   
 Well now, you will have to wait and see. I suppose you will be along. 
 I am not making any forecasts of what will take place on that trip because I don't think it would be as interesting to you. If you have something to speculate about, then you have a story to write, don't you see, whether it's true or not.   
 Never heard of it. I have never been sorry.  2  Theron Lamar Candle, former Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Tax Division.  
 Surely. 
 That is such a complicated question that I would have to get a Philadelphia lawyer to work it out, so I can't answer it. 
 I understand that, so you will have to get the "asker" to give it to you after you get out of here. Well, are you running out of"soap"?  
 Never heard of it.  3  J. Howard McGrath, former Attorney General. 
 Never heard of the White House clique. They have had several names for the members of the President's staff, but I believe that's a new one.  
 No, I haven't any comment. I am glad to hear of that difference of opinion, however.   
 Not the slightest. He did not take me into his confidence.  
 I think what finished their battle was a speech--a certain speech that the President of the United States made in Philadelphia. 4  I think that wound them up. They admit now that they have been wrong.  4 See Item 249.  
 Had a very pleasant visit with the Norwegian Prime Minister. He is a fine gentleman. He was in Norway when my daughter visited there, and he spent a great deal of his time telling me what a fine daughter I had. And, of course, that made a hit with me.   5  Prime Minister Oscar Torp.  
 I have no comment. 
 I have no comment. 
 No. I was like Sparkman. Mrs. Truman was my secretary. That helped me pay my bard when I was in the Senate.  
 Through New York State ? 
 Well, I think I will say to you just what I said to my friend down here, you will have to wait and see.  I would like to make one comment. They have been poking fun at our candidate, Governor Stevenson, because he likes to put his audiences in a good humor. I found a quotation, I think, that will cover that. It is an admonition, in Matthew 6. It says, "Be not as the hypocrites, sad of countenance."  
 "Be not as the hypocrites, sad of countenance."  
 No comment. 
 No comment.  There is one matter I want to call your attention to, that might be of interest to you. Give you something to read.  Back in--let's see--September 27, 1951, I sent a message to Congress 6  which was most important at that time, and today has become much more important. I invite you to read it. It has about two mimeographed pages--won't take you long to read it. Enlighten you considerably.  6  for the President's special message to Congress recommending legislation requiring Government officials to disclose the sources of their incomes, see 1951 volume, this series, Item 237. 
 Well, read it. 
 That's right. You guessed right. I want you to read it. I want you to read that message. 
 September 27, 1951, just a year ago. 
 Read the message. It speaks for itself. 
 Yes. 
 Yes. I stand behind every message I send to the Congress.   
 In those days it was exceedingly difficult. We had no expense accounts or anything of the sort when I was in the Senate. 
 Well they get much more pay now than they did when I was in the Senate--lots more emoluments than I did when I was in the Senate. 
 No Comment.   
 That's right.  
 I am not a pollster. I am not a prophet, so I have no comment to make on that. Let the results speak for itself. 
 Not a thing. Reporter. Thank you, sir.
