 Well, I haven't anything to tell you especially this morning, and so I am open for questions to start with.    Mr. Schram asked for the appointment, and he came in to tell me that there was no inflationary trend in the stock market.    Well, I was satisfied with the communique, and satisfied with the accomplishments of the foreign ministers conference in Moscow, and I think it will have constructive results. One of them, I noticed in the New York Times this morning, has been accomplished in Rumania already.   They are not going to be recognized without the communique's guarantees of free and unfettered elections. That guarantee has not been foregone. I still have the final say on what we will do in those two countries.   We have recognized them conditionally.   Yes.    This Government has no reason to believe it.    The Yugoslavian recognition was conditional and is still conditional. And it was necessary under the circumstances, because we had tentatively to recognize that government to begin with and go through with it. But we are still hoping for a better situation in Yugoslavia.    Not immediately.   Mr. Harriman has been trying to quit ever since the Germans folded up, but I have persuaded him to stay, for the reason that he has a knowledge of conditions over there that would be very hard for a new man to attain immediately, and he has been kind enough to continue on. But I am sure that he still wants to quit. I hope he won't quit in any hurry.   The situation is as it has always been.   That's right.    I think Mr. Byrnes covered it very thoroughly and completely.   It is only to advise U.N.O. delegates. Of course, it will finally wind up with presentation of a program to the Congress of the United States for ratification.   I can't understand the question ?   The Senate Atomic Energy Committee has the job of recommending legislation for the control of atomic energy in the United States.   This committee of U.N.O., we hope, will arrive at a conclusion for international control of atomic energy in such a way that everybody will be happy over it for peacetime purposes.   I have no comment.   It does not--it does not foreclose the Senate Committee from doing anything it chooses to do.    No, I do not. I do not. I think the referendum is in the Congress of the United States.    They were anxious for the distribution of mail in Germany.   I told them under present circumstances it was not possible, but that we were working towards that end.   Yes. McCarran, La Follette, Eastland, and Wherry.   On account of the transportation system in Germany. As soon as the transportation system can be worked out for that purpose, and as soon as we can reach an agreement with Russia and France and England on the matter. This eventually will come about, of course.   It will include regular things that can be sent through the mails.    I don't know all the facts in connection with this situation in Manila, so I would prefer not to comment on it. 1  1 On January 9, the White House announced that the President had received a memorandum from the Chief of Staff, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, concerning the demonstrations in Manila. General Eisenhower reported that on January 6-7 a series of demonstrations took place, and that the only one of any magnitude had been a mass meeting of 8,000 to 10,000 soldiers at the City Hall. He further reported that the discontent had been primarily caused by acute homesickness aggravated by the termination of hostilities, and that the men, who had performed magnificently under campaign conditions, were not inherently challenging discipline or authority.    Yes.   That was the intention of Mr. Byrnes' statement. I think it is.    There has been a discussion of an increase in the price of steel. As soon as the full figures for this last quarter are in, I think there will be some slight increase in the price of steel.   I don't know what the figure will be.    Yes. I favor doing the same thing for the Indians that we did for the Chinese.    I don't think that would accomplish anything. That was founded on the Railroad Act, which has worked rather successfully. And it was my intention to use the pattern, which the Railroad Act had set up for us, in those industries which have country wide effect on the welfare of the people. It wouldn't be possible in local matters. In fact, I think the local people will have to take care of that situation themselves.    Yes.   I don't think I ever made any such statement as that. I was always in favor of an advisory committee for Japan, and I think our allies--I think our allies were entitled to that. Always have thought so.    I am not in any position to make a statement about the subject now. I will make it at the proper time.   As soon as I can find a man that suits me, I will do it.   I will read you something here.  I have some--I never thought about this. I should have read it first.  I have a question pending down in the Congress on succession, and I have the solution in here, a telegram from Texas which I am going to read to you because it's pretty good.   "With total membership of 57, this organization has 56 vice presidents."  "They are hereby tendered you to solve the matter of Presidential succession for all time. When necessary to act as a hoard, meetings can be held at the branch White House at Truman, Tex. The Bonehead Club of Dallas."    That's all.      It is a pleasure to meet you, gentlemen.  Borge Houmann : Mr. President, I have been elected to extend our deepest gratitude for this journey, which is just about completed around your country. We have seen many things of extreme interest, and we have had brought home to us a picture of some remarkable contributions made by your country toward winning the war.  We have great interest seeing that our two countries are on a very amicable basis, even more so than some of us sometimes thought at the beginning of the war; and we feel, all of us, that this spirit of cooperation and good will has been very much strengthened by this journey. We feel that it will continue between our two countries and contribute to the mutual welfare of both our countries. Mr. President, you have the everlasting gratitude of all of us.  Well, you no doubt have heard of the underground work during the war in Denmark in organizing, and conducted by a few members of the underground movement-the Freedom Council in Denmark. We feel that in doing that work we contributed-although very, very little--towards winning the war. But most of the work we have been able to do we would have been unable to accomplish without the aid of the Allied army forces. In fact, without this aid, we feel sure that neither our country nor any other of the occupied countries of Europe would by now have been liberated from the yoke of Naziism.  On behalf of the Freedom Council of Denmark, of which I was a member, I take pleasure in presenting to you this arm band, which was the insignia of the Danish underground movement in the days before liberation on the 6th of May.  I present it to you as a token of fighting Denmark's undying gratitude and unbounded appreciation of what you have contributed.   I thank you very much. It certainly is a grand thing. I will have that framed, and keep it as one of the mementos of the administration.  Do you represent all Scandinavian countries, or just-- Voices: Only Denmark.   Well, I have always had a warm spot in my heart for Denmark, and for Norway and for Sweden. I do appreciate what Denmark did in this war. They really made a contribution, under circumstances that were most trying. We feel very, friendly toward your country. Thank you very much for this.
