  I have an important statement to make to you this morning which I think is one of the most important that I have made in a good while.  You will recall that in my statement of November 9th accompanying the action removing all wage controls and all but a few price controls, I concluded by saying that the responsibility for working out agreements for the adjustment of differences, without interruptions to production, now rested squarely upon labor and management.  I have a joint letter from the Associated General Contractors of America and the Building and Construction Trades Department of the American Federation of Labor. The Associated General Contractors represent management while the Building and Construction Trades Department represents nineteen international unions and approximately two million workers.  The letter encloses an agreement setting up a plan of industrial peace for the construction industry.  Let me read you a few excerpts from the letter.  All these documents are being mimeographed and will be available for you as you go out, in toto.  "We are enclosing a copy of a plan"-this is the quotation from the letter--  "We are enclosing a copy of a plan to provide a National Joint Conference Committee in the building and construction industry for the settlement of any dispute or disagreement which may arise and which is voluntarily submitted to the Committee by mutual agreement of the parties involved in the dispute.  "Having established this voluntary machinery to settle disputes in this important industry without stoppage of work by lockout or strike, our organizations intend to exert every effort to see that these procedures are used wherever possible to settle any dispute that may arise--over the terms of new contracts or over the interpretation of existing agreements.  "This important industry is anxious to accept its responsibility--both labor and management. We will make our contribution toward providing the highest possible measure of industrial peace."  Now you will get the full text of those agreements mimeographed.  In my Message to the Congress on the State of the Union, I said: "We have established a national labor policy in this country based upon free collective bargaining as the process for determining wages and working conditions. This is still the national policy; it should continue to be the national policy." That is the end of the quotation from the message.  The agreement signed by the Associated General Contractors of America and the Building and Construction Trades Department of the A.F. of L. is a significant step forward in industrial relations in this country.  We have had good labor news during the past 10 days. The Steelworkers and the steel producing subsidiaries of the United States Steel Corporation have reached a final agreement on the problem of eliminating wage rate inequities--a highly complicated problem on which they had been working for over 2 years. The same parties have also reached an agreement to postpone the expiration date of their present contract until April 30.  The United States Rubber Company and the rubber workers union of the CIO have also recently reached agreement on a significant contract.  The making of these agreements indicates a widespread willingness to resolve industrial disputes without resort to force. We are moving closer and closer to our ideals of free collective bargaining.  Now for questions, if you have any.   I hope it will--I hope it will.   Yes, it takes in all those things. Yes it does.   That takes in all those things. I think that you will find the statement has well set out all those things, when you get the mimeographed copies of the complete agreement.   Wait a minute, Bob. 1  It's all right, if you want to go.   1 Robert G. Nixon of International News Service.    There is not. General Fleming stated the case exactly, and General Fleming, I think, is a member of the Government. He stated the case in exactly the truth. That's all there is to it.   I did not. The only time I saw General Fleming was at the Cabinet meeting, and I did not talk to him then.    GO ahead.   With what?   What's that?   I don't know what you are talking about.   Oh, yes. That was at an off-the-record meeting where I read the requests that--if you remember--for all the weeks. Well, one of the requests was for a national cat week, and I thought it was funny !   No. Neutral. I am neutral on cats. Certain sort of cats that I am against, but they have two legs.     Sure.   Because I thought it was of sufficient importance that it should be announced from the White House.    No indeed! Very small part of them are feminine.   No. I am drawing no line.    It is exactly the same as it was on Thursday at the press conference, and if you will get out the record of that press conference, there has been absolutely no change in that stand.   I certainly do not.    I am considering at least a dozen people. I think three or four of them are Republicans.    Not that I know of.    I would be very much pleased to see Mr. Stalin and Mr. Attlee here in Washington. I don't expect to leave the United States to attend the Big Three conference.   I don't know of any need for it.    NO, I have not.    Well, I might have. I haven't been invited to go there yet.   I haven't inaugurated any policy, but I haven't as yet appointed any so-called "lame ducks."   I may have said that to somebody in a private conversation, but I made no public statement  --and I do not expect to make one.    I never heard of that before. If it came out of the White House it didn't come from the President. It might have come from some of the "fixtures"-something like that--maybe it was one of the "cooks."     That matter is under consideration. It will be presented to the Congress, at which time you will get my views in toto. I am not ready yet to make an expression.    NO, I haven't.   It has been called to my attention, yes.    There will be no stops on the trip to Mexico City. There will be one stop coming back and that will be at Baylor.   I don't know what time. I guess you can find out from Hank Myers.   I don't know how long it will take.   It hasn't been worked out yet, no.   NO, it hasn't occurred to me to worry. I like to fly. If your name is up it doesn't make any difference whether you are on a train or anywhere, you will get it anywhere.    Mr. Churchill is entitled to his opinion. I have no comment on it.   None whatever.   I didn't hear the question. Will you   No. No, they haven't. They haven't said anything to me about it.   I have no opinion to express on that. We have been trying, ever since I have been in the White House, to get the Congress to inaugurate a policy for air, both national and international, and they have never yet been able to agree on a policy. The policy that is now in effect is one that was made by Executive order. I am hoping that the Congress will inaugurate a policy for air, and of course one of the first things necessary in that policy is safety.   I don't want to discuss anything of that kind until it is put up to me officially.   You're welcome.
