 Please be seated. This time it isn't the Navy clock that's slow, it's that one up there.  I am ready for questions.  \. No, I haven't.  1 There had been reports in the Swedish press that the Secret Service agents accompanying Margaret Truman on her European tour had used unnecessary force while protecting the President's daughter. \. I have read the reports as they came to me.  \. I haven't read the article and don't intend to read it, and of course I won't say anything about it. I don't very often read the Post because it's always wrong on most things.   \. No, that's none of my business. It's up to the Russians. You want to ask a question ?  \. I have no comment, because I know nothing about any "mess."  2  Governor Adlai Stevenson of Illinois, Democratic candidate for President, had written a letter to Tom Humphrey, editor of the Oregon Journal's editorial page, who had asked the question: "Can Stevenson really clean up the mess in Washington?" \. I didn't see the article, and therefore I can't comment on it.  \. No comment.  3  Senator John Sparkman of Alabama, Democratic candidate for Vice President.  \. None.  \. Can't possibly be. I am the key of the campaign. I can't be a target. \. I said I have no comment on what Tony  4  asked me, but I am the key of the campaign and so of course I can't be a target on the Democratic side. I will be a target for Eisenhower and his cohorts, but not for the Democrats.  4  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. \. Well, the Democratic Party has to run on the record of the Roosevelt-Truman administrations, and that's all it can run on. You know that. You have been in politics a long time. I used to see you down in the Senate all the time, watching me.  \. That's all right. I am glad to have you. I don't think you will find out anything new. \. Well, new blood is always helpful in any organization, and I believe in that. I believe there ought to be new blood infused into the Democratic Party, but that doesn't mean that we are going back on what the Democratic Party has done in the last 20 years at all.  \. Why do you want to go back to that sheet, May? 5    5 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. All I need do is look at the table of contents, May, and I know what's in it. And it's always wrong.   \. Not necessary at all. They need no instruction. They are right, always.  \. I will make the announcements at the proper time, and you will all have a chance--those of you who want to-will have a chance to pack your grips and go along, if you choose.  \. Go ahead, Tony. \. No comment.  \. Go ahead, Tony. Try your luck.  \. Did I say that, Tony? I don't remember saying anything like that. \. Maybe I said he got mixed up. I don't think he intended to garble it at all. All of us do that, including reporters.  \. Shoot, Tony--shoot. \. My suggestion to the Los Angeles Times--I guess that's the one that asked you--is to talk to the mayor.  6  Mayor of Los Angeles, Calif. \. Well, that's all right then--they have got all the information they are entitled to. They won't get any from me. \. The matter was not discussed at all.  \. Well, I think the record is perfectly plain on that--both candidates have been invited to be briefed on the policy and the future situation with regard to the Government, and of course I think Secretary Lovett's idea was just a follow-up on that program.  Of course, I don't know who the new Cabinet is going to be, and neither does anybody else.  \. Go ahead, Eddie 7  because I haven't read it.   7  Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post. \. Well now, Eddie, I think a little later on that will be gone into very carefully, but it will be on the stump and not here at a press conference. \. Sure--let's see what you mean by general question--but go ahead. \. Well, May, I think I know more about the Government than any man in the United States, and when I get ready to tell what the Government means and what it does, it will be a categorical answer to anything that the opposition may have to say. I don't have to read what they have to say. I know what they are going to say. And it's all wrong. And I am going to prove that I am right.  \. It isn't necessary at all, May, because I am familiar with the whole situation from start to finish. \. Yes, I do; I know exactly what they are going to say. It has been said time and time again. Read Willkie. Read Dewey. You just get a repeat, that's all.  \. Not a thing.  \. Why, certainly. He can have all the information he wants, and so can Eisenhower, if he wants it. I will give them the truth. Then if they want to use it, why it's up to them. \. Not a thing. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's three hundred and thirteenth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, August 21, 1952. 
