 Please be seated. I have no special announcements to make, ladies and gentlemen, but I will try to answer questions, if they are not too complicated.    I have no comment on it.   No. If I had been embarrassed, everybody would have found it out because I would have announced it.   1 On August 23 Representative Anthony F. Tauriello of New York wrote to the Secretary of Defense demanding his resignation. On August 30 Secretary Louis Johnson replied in the form of a statement reviewing his stewardship as Secretary of Defense.    Well, of course I hope for its realization, and I have made it as strongly apparent to the Congress that I hope for its realization. And if sometime or other we can get that 36-inch globe--or 30-inch globe--I have over at the office up here, I will give you a dissertation on it that will show you just how simple and how easy it would be to put it into effect, and how much good it would do us, and the rest of the world.   Oh yes. It is not necessarily underdeveloped areas, it is the development of areas that will support more populations, raise more food, and cause a demand for our own products, and at the same time raise the standard of living of millions and millions of people--which is exactly what keeps peace in the world. It would be the best guarantee of world peace that we could possibly put out, and it wouldn't, in the long run, cost us anything except the technical help which we would be furnishing.    I am very sorry to hear it, because I am anxious for Alaska and Hawaii to be made States in the Union for national defense purposes principally. I want somebody down there fighting all the time for their proper development and defense. Never get that until they get a couple of Senators in the Senate and some Representatives in the House.    That is exactly right, and they haven't any business doing a trick like that. The foreign policy is not made by any longshoreman's union.   What intercession can I make?   Well, we will take care of the situation if it gets bad enough.    Well, I don't think there is very much comment I can make on that. This is merely the beginning of a plan which has been under consideration for a long time. Of course, I can understand the attitude of some of the Congressmen, they would like to have these things moved into certain other cities--and that is not the objective at all.    No, they are not. Our controls are not lax at all. We have been trying to get the other countries to tighten up as tightly as we have been doing, and then we wouldn't have any trouble.  2 In a speech on August 26 Winston S. Churchill, then British opposition leader, speaking from his country home at Westerham in Kent, stated that the British should stop selling machine tools and diesel engines to Russia and her satellites. He also spoke out against the presence of Soviet "inspectors" inside factories where production of a secret nature was underway. He was referring to work being done in British factories for the Soviet Union. The orders were placed under the British-Russian trade agreement of 1948.    I am not in a position to comment on that today. I am sorry, I can't.  3 See Item 226.   I can't answer that question.   I hope that there is no great danger that Red China will become involved in this United Nations approach to establishing peace in Korea.   The Formosan situation as set out in my various messages is one for settlement--in the Japanese peace treaty with the allies who fought in the Japanese war and with those occupation forces--by those nations that have occupying forces in Japan now. Of course, it will not be necessary to keep the 7th Fleet in the Formosa Strait if the Korean thing is settled. That is a flank protection on our part for the United Nations forces.  4  See Item 223.    ] can't comment upon that now. When that matter is put before me, then I will pass on it. I can't comment on it now, because I have no idea of what sort of legislation will be before me.    The Attorney General is a visitor. He has never seen a press conference in this new hall of ours, and he wanted to see whether it was successful here or not.     No. It has been discussed with me, however, time and time again, but he did not discuss it with me Tuesday.    The MacArthur incident is a closed incident.    I can't answer a question like that because they are all making efforts to increase their defense efforts, and I think they are going to do it.   They are hoped to be satisfactory, when they are finished. I can't comment on it because they are only in the preliminary stages. It wouldn't be fair to those countries for me to stand up here and tell them what they ought to do. That's their business.    No.    I will answer that question when we come to the implementation of the Spanish loan.    Not at the present time.    I am not a columnist nor a pollster, so I can't very well do it.   You're welcome.
