 Please be seated.  I have no special announcements for you this morning, but I will try to answer questions if I can.  
 Had a very satisfactory meeting with them, and they are making great progress.  1 Henry G. Bennett, Technical Cooperation Administrator, and Nelson A. Rockefeller, Chairman of the International Development Advisory Board.  
 Yes.  2 Under Secretary of State James E. Webb attended the inauguration of former Secretary of State James F. Byrnes as Governor of South Carolina in Columbia, S.C., on January 16, 1951. Governor Byrnes' inaugural address was printed in the Congressional Record . 
 None. No comment.  
 I think they have been stated as they will be carried out--Mr. Wilson, 3  I think, made a statement in Philadelphia last night on it, which is in line. They will carry it out just as fast as they can. As I have told you time and again here, it takes time.  3 Charles E. Wilson, Director, Office of Defense Mobilization. 
 I didn't say that. I said as soon as it was practicable. 
 No comment. 
 I said no comment.  
 I haven't talked to Mr. Wilson about it, but I imagine he will talk to me, if he decides to do that. 4  4 Eric A. Johnston took office as Administrator of the Economic Stabilization Agency on January 24, 1951.  
 I don't think that matter was taken up with me. 
 No. I don't remember.  
 Dean Acheson commented on that completely yesterday, with my entire approval. He covered it thoroughly and completely, after consultation with the President. Be sure and make that plain. 5    5 For Secretary of State Acheson's statement, released to the press on January 17, see the Department of State Bulletin .  
 I can't answer that. I am having my experts work on it now, and as soon as I get the opinion of the experts, then I will make up my mind on it. 
 No, I am not. I am having them work on the possibility of taxes necessary to raise the revenue to meet the expenses.  
 Of course. 
 Yes, Of course--with everything we can bring to bear. 6  6 For a statement by the President on Ambassador Austin's resolution declaring the Chinese Communists aggressors in Korea, see Item 22 .  
 I can't answer you on that--
 --and I can't comment on it.  
 The only thing I can say to you is that we have been considering the situation with regard to the RFC, and I hope in a short time to come up with a suggestion. 
 No.
 I can't, until I get all the facts, and I don't think all the facts have been exposed as yet. 
 The same five directors will continue to serve under the old appointments, but if it is necessary to reappoint them, I will do it.  
 The Budget Message answers that. 7 7  See Item 13 . 
 When the time comes to do it, we will find out the best way to do it, and do it legally. It will not be done illegally!   
 It has been suggested by the Secretary of State that I address them, and I have the matter under consideration.  8    8 See Item 59.  
 That's all right. 
 I have always favored it. I am for the Bay of Fundy project, May. I don't want to confine it to the Passamaquoddy project. I am for the Bay of Fundy project, which is the whole project and includes Canada. 
 Yes.  
 No, I didn't ask him in the first place to take any hand in it. He was requested by the railroad unions to take a hand in that, and he accommodated them. They reached an agreement and signed it.  9 John R. Steelman, The Assistant to the President.  
 I know nothing about it. If the Democratic majority in the Senate takes an action like that, I shall appreciate it very highly. 10  10 See Item 71. 
 What's that? 
 I shall do whatever is necessary to meet the situation as it comes up. 
 I would appreciate it very highly. 
 Why certainly--certainly. Of course I would appreciate it, but I will do whatever is necessary to meet the situation when it comes up. 
 No. I am making no request. I think I was told that it was the Democratic majority in the Senate that was working on it, and I am happy that they are. 
 That is correct. 
 That is right--which is constitutional, by the way.  You know, it's a peculiar situation, sometimes, that arises here. Last week, I made it perfectly plain exactly what I would like to do with the legislative branch of the Government, and the statement that I made about consultation was not quoted in a single paper in the United States. At the--at the same time, 2 or 3 weeks ago, there was a question came up here about atomic energy and its use for national defense. It was rather badly garbled and created an argument that was entirely unnecessary.  Now, I will appreciate it most highly, in this emergency, if you will state the facts as I state them to you. That's all I ask. I don't care what you say on the editorial page, but I wish you would state the facts on the news pages just as they are. And I am not scolding you, I am just stating a fact. 
 Oh, I will have somebody read it to you. I didn't bring it with me, but I made a clear and complete statement about consulting the legislative branch, and it wasn't quoted anywhere. I will send it to you. 11  11 Later in the day the White House issued the following release: "The question and answer from last week's press and radio conference to which the President referred today was as follows: "QUESTION: Well, Mr. President, Senator Connally did not dispute your right to do so, he defended it; but he said that he understood you would consult with Congress before you would do it, and continuing: 'It is my understanding that administration leaders plan to do so. "ANSWER: We always do that. We never make any moves in foreign affairs or on any domestic affairs, or any other affairs, that we do not very considerably consult with the committees that are interested in it. We have always done that, and there has been no change in that policy, and won't be. And any Senator who wants to talk to the President can always get a date to do it." 
 I will give it to you. 
 I will send it to you. You may have. I am not blaming you. It is sometimes the rewrite man that scratches things out. 
 That is correct. 
 Well, you probably did, I say, but sometimes your rewrite man doesn't do exactly what you want. 
 I will send you all a copy of it, so that you will understand just what I am talking about.  
 Whenever I have the tax message ready, I will have them down and discuss it with them, as I always do. 
 As quickly as I can get it ready. I can't set a date on it. The hearings are going to start the first part of February. I hope to have the message ready before the hearings start. 
 Yes. 12    12 For the tax message, see Item 28.  
 I don't think I used those words. Those are Coolidge's words.  I don't think Eddie used those. 
 I have no comment on it. The article speaks for itself, and it was a very nice article, I will say that for Eddie. 13    13 Edward T. Foillard, "Truman Does Not Choose to Run," Look magazine, January 30, 1951, p. 31.  
 No prospects at the present time, I am sorry. I understand, though, that we haven't missed anything. It has been colder down there than it has been up here.  
 I will send you a copy of this quote about which I am talking. It is a very interesting quote. 
 You don't have to alibi to me. I like all of you, and I think you are making a sincere effort to report things as they are. I am not blaming you at all for things that don't come out in the papers. 
 Of course you don't. That's true. You won't get it, either.  
 No, I can't comment on it because I haven't read it carefully and I am not familiar with it; therefore I can't comment on it.  
 I will invite you to read the New Yorker, which gave an exact and complete transcript of what was said and what was meant. 14  It was all explained in the New Yorker. I am giving the New Yorker a kick, because they wrote a good article--just as I gave Eddie a kick over there awhile ago.  14 John Hersey, "The Wayward Press; President Truman's press conference, November 30th," New Yorker, December 16, 1950. For the text of the press conference to which the article referred, see 1950 volume, this series, Item 295. 
 A kick upstairs, Smitty. 15  I always consider that I am pushing them upstairs when I compliment them, and I think that is what I intend to do.  15 Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations.  Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
