 I am ready for questions.  
 The emergency for Taft-Hartley has not arrived. When we get to that bridge we will cross it. 
 That's correct. When it's time to use it, I will not hesitate to use it.  
 Well now, the Wall Street Journal must have been standing behind the curtain somewhere that I know nothing about. No such arrangement has been arrived at. 
 No sir, they did not head accurately. They hardly ever do.   
 I think it's an outrage. 
 The Secretary of State answered every question in connection with that, that you can possibly ask him, so I would advise you to read his press conference for yesterday. 1  He and I are in complete agreement.  1 According to the New York Times, Secretary Acheson informed reporters at his press conference on November 16 that the United States would not even consider the possibility of recognizing the Chinese Communists until they released the U.S. officials.  
 Well, I have no comment on that--well, I will make one comment on it--it's old stuff. Mr. Steelman answered that in full with a statement in full about an hour and a half ago--or 2 hours, I think. If you will read the statement of Dr. Steelman, you will find your answer right there. 
 Yes. That situation has been under consideration ever since I became chairman of the committee on the--in the Senate. It is absolutely nothing new whatever. 
 No, it is essentially a problem of civilian defense. It is a part of the National Security Resources Board's business to look into it, and Dr. Steelman has been acting as the chairman of that board; and if you will read the statement I think you will find it thoroughly and completely covers all the questions you want to ask.  
 I will have all that information in the Message on the State of the Union, or the Economic Message when it goes to the Congress. I don't care to discuss it now. 
 I think I have said that about 19 times since I have been.-- 
 All right. You have it.  
 No.  
 I have no comment. He is giving the facts.  2 According to newspaper reports Senator Elmer Thomas of Oklahoma became angry with a country, reported to be Sweden, when that country ignored his Armed Forces Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee which was touring European countries to investigate conditions in countries aided by the United States.  
 We have no official report on the outcome of that election. Whenever we are furnished with the official report on the election, I shall make a comment.  
 I will answer that question on December the 1st. 
 I will cross that river when I come to it. 
 That's correct. The Taft-Hartley provides for factfinding.  
 I have no comment on that at the present time.  
 Good!--go ahead. 
 That's right. 
 Whenever the time comes that it is necessary I will use the Taft-Hartley law, and all the laws on the books. That is my business--to enforce the law, and that is what I intend to do. 
 No. No. 
 I Can't answer that question. I have to find an emergency before I take action.  
 That has been a matter for argument for a long, long time. I have no comment on it.  
 He is perfectly entitled to that opinion. I have no comment on it.  
 I haven't made up my mind who is going to get the job. When I do, I will announce it right here and you will know all about it. 
 I have no announcements to make. When I get ready to do so, I will make them from this desk right here.  
 That is a statement that was made out of the whole cloth by a newspaperman in Paris, and there isn't a word of truth in it. 
 There isn't a word of truth in that rumor that was started in Paris. I think Dean Acheson covered it thoroughly yesterday in his press conference. 3   3 As reported in the press, Secretary Acheson denied that the three foreign ministers at their recent meeting in Paris had discussed or even considered the possibility of creating a small army in Germany. The Secretary further stated that he had denied this report previously and he emphasized the fact that the State Department had given no consideration to such a prospect. 
 I don't see why you did. I read what he had to say and it was perfectly clear. 
 I am making no American policy from this desk. 
 I am making no American policy with respect to Germany from this desk. That is a matter that has to be worked out between the powers that are interested. 
 Yes, sure. That is what I sent him there for. 
 I am not in close contact with the situation in Germany itself. That is what I have Mr. McCloy over there for.  
 It is still under consideration, as I told Congressman Crosser. 
 Yes.  
 No. I made a statement just--Charlie Ross released a statement on it which covered the ground. 4   4 The release stated that a Regional Conference of the Chiefs of the United States Missions in Eastern Asia and the Far East would be held at Bangkok, Thailand, the end of January. In connection with preparations for the conference, the release added, the President held a meeting at the White House earlier in the day to discuss questions relating to United States policy in the area. Those present, in addition to the President, were Secretary of State Dean Acheson, Under Secretary of State James E. Webb, Assistant Secretary of State W. Walton Butterworth, Ambassadors Philip C. Jessup and J. Leighton Smart, and State Department Consultants Raymond B. Fosdick and Everett C. Case.  
 Just a pleasant, friendly visit. He is a friend of mine. When he comes to Washington he comes in to see me, and talks about the state of the Union, and other things. 
 I imagine he did.   
 I won't have a press conference on Thursday.  
 If we decide to have one, it will probably be on Friday.  
 I have no comment. That is a primary contest, and the President never mixes in a primary contest; but when the Democrats get ready to operate against the Republicans, then I will take a hand if it is necessary.  
 No, I haven't.  
 I wonder why he didn't put that plan into effect in the Congress that has just adjourned? They were going to cut ever so much off that budget, and they came up here with a bigger one than I asked them for.  When I make the 1951 budget it will be just as hard to do anything about it as it was with the 1950 budget. 
 Senator Douglas of Illinois. He has made it time and again before. It's easy enough to stand outside and say what ought to be done about the budget, but when you try to make it up, it's a different story. 
 It is going to be a tight budget, just like the 1950 budget was. It is going to be an honest budget, because I know how to make it. 
 I can't answer that question. 
 That will appear in the Budget Message. 
 No.   Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
