  I have no special announcements for you this morning. I made the special announcement last night so you would have plenty of time to mull into it. 1  If you have any questions, I will try to answer them.  1 See Item 65.    The ERP should not be cut at all. It was worked out after obtaining the best information possible, and the request was made for the amount that was necessary to run the ERP budget for the coming year.    I do not agree at all with Senator George on that. I think he is wrong. I think that the fact that we may have to run a deficit this year would be much more dangerous for the country than to levy taxes necessary to run the Government.    There is no foundation in fact for that.  2 The report of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Evaluation Board on the atomic weapons tests held off Bikini Island in July 1946. See 1948 volume, this series, Item 278 .    I have not accepted the invitation. I have been canceling invitations instead of accepting them. I am sorry. I wish I could go.    It is in the course of preparation now. As soon as it is ready, I will release it to you.   It will be in the form of a message, yes.    Certainly. I certainly do. There is nothing like that under consideration by the Federal Reserve Board at the present time.  3  See Item 32 .    No. He told you that yesterday, didn't he, as he went out the door?    Yes, that is my intention. I have so much work to do, I can't get to it.    If the economic stabilization bill has been shelved, I know nothing about it. I don't think it will be shelved without consultation with me.    I have not gone into it. It has never been put up to me directly, so I can't tell you whether I am in favor of it or not. After it has been properly looked into by the departments, and they decide that it should be done, why of course I will be in favor of it.    If we needed another billion and a half for the military budget, I would have asked Congress for it when I sent up the Budget Message.    I have heard--I saw in the paper this morning that he was being considered for every job in the Government, and I have no comment to make on that.    That's the first time I had heard anything about that. That's another of the "it is said" things on the front page of the Times--Herald Tribune--I forget which--this morning. That's the first time I ever heard anything about it.    There have been a dozen possibilities for Moscow, but none of them is under serious consideration at the present time.    No, I have not. I sent my choice to the Congress, and I am still behind him. 4   4  Mort C. Wallgren, former Governor of the State of Washington.    I think the economic control program--the request for the economic control program has been one of the main reasons for the temporary heading off of inflation. I think it is just as necessary now as it ever has been. We have been using those powers that we have with circumspection in the public interest. That is what we intend to do with those powers we are asking for now,   I think it has.    I thought Mr. Wherry was the Floor leader of the Senate?[Laughter]   Go on, Bob. 5    5 Robert G. Nixon of International News Service.   I have no way of telling anything about what Senator Taft thinks. I think he is wrong about the pact. I think the pact is absolutely necessary, and I think it will be ratified when it comes up before the Senate.    I have a long-winded telegram from the real estate lobby, giving me all sorts of "what for" for signing the bill, so it must be a good bill for that very reason.   The telegram is not mine to release. It belongs to the sender. If he wants to release it, he is perfectly at liberty to do it, as far as I am concerned. It will confirm my statement of yesterday, if he does release it.    I don't think so. I don't think any of the present program has been shelved. It is still under consideration. Plenty of time yet for action on it.  Yes, Joe ?   Joseph A. Fox : Who was the Senator that has got this telegram?   Which telegram?  Mr. Fox: On real estate.   I got it--I have got it right here. He can give it to you, but I am not going to do it.   From the sender. I have no objection to its being published.   No, no-it was sent by the head of the real estate lobby here in Washington-- Mr. Nelson. 6   6 Herbert U. Nelson, executive vice president of the National Association of Real Estate Boards.   National Association of Real Estate Boards.   By the man who sent it.    That was the--the telegram was to me, and if the sender of that telegram, or the man who sent it, wants to release it, I have no objection, because it confirms what I have in my statement of yesterday.    The name of Joe Fox was presented to me by a number of eminent real estate--[much laughter]--I have real estate on the brain. Newspapermen, I should say.   Well now, I made a slip of the tongue there. We have been talking about real estate--I was thinking about these gentlemen right here before me. White House correspondents.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President!
