  The fact-finding board on the threatened railroad strike was appointed this morning: Judge Leif Erickson of the Montana Supreme Court; Frank M. Swacker, lawyer at 120 Broadway, New York City; and Gordon S. Watkins, Department of Economics, University of California. That is a pretty even geographical distribution.   I want to make a comment on two strike settlements, which I think deserve comment; that is, the rubber and the telephone strike settlements, settled strictly on a collective bargaining basis, and satisfactorily settled for both sides, without any ballyhoo or unnecessary conversation. There have been hundreds of such settlements which have received no notice. Those settlements were made by CIO unions, and A.F. of L. unions, and independent unions. And it is too bad that the people who do the right thing can't get just as much publicity as those who are always running for headlines to settle things in the newspapers.   I have no comment. They had the same right to collective bargaining that the rest of these people have had.   That has always been my opinion.   I will not intervene. That is the answer.   Well, I thought maybe you might ask me that question, so I hunted up that question that I made at the time those gentlemen were in here, and I will just read it to you.  This statement was issued by Mr. Ross: "The President said his recommendation for an 18 1/2-cent-an-hour wage increase applied only to the basic steel industry. The President stated he assumed other settlements would be made through negotiations, expressing the hope that the men on strike in those seven hundred companies would already be back at work as soon as possible."  Now the union officials have claimed that I made certain commitments, and the men who do the hiring--management has claimed that I have made certain commitments; but that is the only commitment that was made. It was settled on basic steel, with the hope that negotiations would be followed through on the others.  There have always been a number of fabricators who have followed the pattern of basic steel, and there is no reason why they shouldn't do it, but there are certain others who have negotiated their own wage program, even after basic steel was settled, and there is no reason why they shouldn't go ahead with their negotiations.    I didn't know what would be in Mr. Churchill's speech. This is a country of free speech. Mr. Churchill had a perfect right to say what he pleased. I was there as his host in Missouri, because I had told him if he would come over here and give the lecture at that little college, that I would be glad to introduce him.   I have no comment.    The President has done everything he possibly can do in the matter. I don't know what else I can do. I can't tell the Senate and House what to do. Only in the form of a message, which message I have given to them. I went down there personally and read it to them.   Didn't think it was that late. I thought it was earlier than that.   I haven't discussed that matter with General Eisenhower. I don't know what his views are. If he made that statement to the Congress, that is evidently what he thinks, but I haven't discussed it with him.    Until the war is officially ended.   I can't answer that, cause we will have to settle that when the time comes.   I will discuss that when the time comes.    I had a very pleasant conference with Mr. Lewis and Mr. Hutcheson. I have no comment to make on the conversations. That was between the President and those gentlemen.    I will have to attend to that on the reorganization plan which is now in progress, under the new law. Krug will take over exactly where Mr. Ickes left off.   He will have everything that was assigned to Mr. Ickes.    . I have made four statements on Mr. Pauley. I still stick to the four of those statements.    Yes.    Ask that question again. I didn't hear it all.   No, it did not.    That is a matter that will be handled when it comes up.   No, I do not. The United Nations Organization is not going to collapse. We are not going to let it collapse.   I don't think Russia is going to go down a one-way street.    No, I would not.    No, I haven't. I will announce them when they are ready.    Yes. I have one acceptance to be received. Then I will announce it.   Somebody there never asks many questions--give him a chance. What is it?    Jack, 1  give him the question and the answer.  1 Jack Romagna, White House Official Reporter.  Mr. Romagna : "Question: How about your board to evaluate the atomic tests? Has that been prepared yet? The President: Yes. I have one acceptance to be received. Then I will announce it."    I hope I will be able to do that. I hope I will be able to welcome them to the United States; but I can't make any definite appointments because we never know what the President has to do at this desk.    No comment. It is news to me. I never heard of it until I saw it in the paper.   I do not.    He is coming home to make a report. He hasn't been home for a long time.   I can't answer that. It is--that is up to him, I guess.   No, he has not.    No, I do not. That's another matter I saw in the paper the other day, on my way to Fulton, Mo. It's news to me.    That will depend on conditions. I had hoped that it would be announced at an early date, after hostilities ceased; and I have been doing everything I possibly can to arrive at that situation. Conditions, I hope, will develop so that we can announce it as early as possible. I am not anxious to continue it any longer than is necessary.    No. I just have no comment to make on it. Only Mr. Churchill is a guest over here. If he wants to make a speech, he has a perfect right to do it, and if I want to go to England and make a speech, I have a perfect right to do it.   No.   No. I am just using that as an illustration.    Not in the immediate future.   Not entirely. Anybody that wants to come to Washington to visit the President of the United States will be welcome.   That is my opinion.    Yes, he will be home very shortly. At my request.   And he is going back.    No. He is going back in the same capacity in which he is working, as Special Envoy to China.   Q. Mr. President, have you decided on a new Ambassador to Brazil? Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
