 This is the first time you have had a chance to sit down.    You never saw a bigger one than that, I bet.  I have got a file of them all, since 1934, and they are right interesting.  This Budget is--well, unique in one way. It is a Message on the State of the Union and the Budget, and it has in it anticipated authorizations which have been recommended by me in various messages, as well as the actual budget figures which are required to run the Government in its various phases. It also for the first time shows that it will not be necessary to borrow any money this year to operate, because the cash balance as it now stands is large enough to absorb the excess-estimated excess over expenditures.   The other highlight in the thing, I think, is the statement that the tax structure should remain as it is, if we expect to arrive at a point where we can actually balance the Budget in the next year after this one.  If I had wanted to make a showing, I could have left out the anticipated expenditures for the legislation which has been recommended, and it would show a balance this year; but I think the fair thing to do is to place before the Congress and the people the exact situation as nearly as we can estimate it, and that it should cover everything that is anticipated. That is the attempt that has been made in this document.  It is very clearly stated in the first--on the first page; that is, page V , 1  and the top of page VI . I don't need to read that to you, for you can read as well as I can.  1 Page references in parentheses, throughout this news conference, indicate where the subjects referred to may be found in the message on the budget as printed herein ; all other references correspond to the page numbers in the Budget as published in House Document 411 .  And then the budget proper, on page XLVII  Summary of Budget, as stated at the bottom of page XLVII , effectively sets out the program as it is. Then you will find on page LIII  the Federal Revenue, Borrowing, and the Public Debt, and the Financial Requirements, and it also sets out the Tax Policy. The "meat" on that is on page LIV .  In the second paragraph : "In view of the still extraordinarily large expenditures in the coming year and the continuing inflationary pressures, I am making no recommendation for a tax reduction at this time."  Then, at the bottom of the page, the last paragraph there : "Because of the success of the Victory loan, I am happy to report that the Treasury will not need to borrow any new money from the public during the remainder of the present fiscal year except through regular sales of savings bonds and savings notes. Furthermore, a part of the large cash balance now in the Treasury may be used for debt reduction so that the public debt which now amounts to about 278 billion dollars will decrease by several billion dollars during the next 18 months. The present statutory debt limit of 300 billion dollars will provide an ample margin for all of the public-debt transactions through the fiscal year 1947. The net effect of the excess of expenditures and debt redemption on the Treasury cash balance, as compared with selected previous years, is shown in the following table."  Then it shows what is anticipated at the end of 1947. It is anticipated that the budget will be reduced by about $7,100 million, and that the cash balance will be reduced from 26 billion to 3 billion, 200 million dollars.  And I think that covers the fundamental budget as nearly as I can cover it.  And if you want to ask questions, I will do my best to answer them.  \. Look at that table there. Mr. Smith: Yes, that is correct. \. That is on page-- \. Begin to be reduced at that time. Page LV  covers it. It sets it out in detail just exactly what is anticipated. If you will notice there, the June and--January-June 1946, it is expected to reduce the budget by 3 billion. That will reduce the cash balance to $11,900 million, or practically a little more than half. \. Yes. \. Yes.  \. No, I Can't. \. I don't know what they are going to ask for. We have to wait and see what they are going to ask for. Their credit extends over a period of years. They can draw on it on the basis of what they themselves think they need. \. That is correct. That is correct. \. Well, of course, in order to make up the budget, we did make an estimate of that, but it is only a preliminary estimate. We have no way of knowing exactly what that figure will be. \. That is what we hope. That is what we hope. \. Not now, no. The thing that will tell whether it will have to be expanded or not, is whether we get this reconversion and production program over, so that the national income will stay at the level which is necessary to meet this anticipated revenue. \. I don't think so. That is the basis for that statement here. \. Between 135 and 140 billions of dollars. \. Sure, I'll try. \. --140.  16.] Mr. Smith:--But that is income payments, and that is a different figure than your--your gross national product. Bear that in mind. \. Yes, they are included. \. They are included.\. Yes, they are included. They are in that billion, five. You will find a billion, 500 million dollars that covers contingencies. \. No. They are all estimates. They are all estimates.  \. What is that page?\. LXXVIII. \. Say that again. I was looking for the place and didn't hear the question. \. 735. \. That phone number is Executive 3000, J. Weldon Jones, extension 118. He will be on the job right straight along, or somebody else will, to answer any questions. \. 118.  \. Yes. Mr. Appleby: Yes.  THE PRESIDENT. More than that. \. Yes. Yes. The full employment is taken into consideration in the estimated budget.  Mr. Appleby: Spread over a number of years.  THE PRESIDENT. Spread over a number of years. It is spread over a number of years. We don't anticipate any serious inroad on that expenditure in this year, if the reconversion program goes through. \. No. Well no, I do not. \. The actual budget is in balance. It is the anticipated expenditures that throws it out. \. If you study the tables carefully, if you will read that preliminary message carefully, it is set out very plainly and carefully. I have been studying it for a month, and it is very plainly set our in every detail; and if it is not set out plain enough for you, why if you will call this number I have given you, you will get all the information you want. \. Well, that's your job. I have boiled it down as much as possible. I have it right here in this document.   \. I don't anticipate any shrinkage in that fund. It depends altogether on the demobilization situation, of course, but I think that is as nearly a figure as we can arrive at, under the present conditions. \. No, sir. I hope it will be 25 billion. That contains, as you understand, war expenditures--the winding up of the war. \. I can't set the date. Your guess is as good as mine. I hope as soon as it possibly can be done. I am not making any prophecies. \. No, I do not.  \. I hope for it. I can't anticipate that, either.  Mr. Smith: I think, Mr. President, I detect a little misunderstanding in some of these questions involving a balanced budget, which is a problem. It may be that the point needs emphasizing here, that this is a sharp distinction from what has been done in previous years, in this respect: namely, that heretofore we have never presented to the Congress any proposed appropriation that was not authorized in some way already by the law.  In this--on the other hand, we have contended for some time that it was the intention of the Budget and Accounting Act to do precisely what is done in this budget: namely, to estimate as best we could the amounts of money that would be required to cover those items which the President had requested of the Congress, in terms of legislation and whatnot, whether or not the Congress had already acted upon them.  Now, that is a sharp distinction here, and in any discussion of balance, it is true the budget might have been balanced on the old basis, but I think it is the President's contention that that basis doesn't represent a real picture of the situation. \. It is an estimate--it is an estimate.  \. No. They are all taken into consideration--every one of those things is taken into consideration. They are every one of them in the budget. There is not a thing left out.  \. Well, you can use any of the facts that are set out here. \. I don't see any reason why you can't use any of it. \. I would rather not have it attributed directly. Mr. Smith: No. \. To the White House? If you like, but we are trying to give you a clear-cut-- \. I would not like to be quoted directly on it, because the Budget Message speaks for itself, but anything that will clarify and explain it, so far as you and I and the public are concerned, that is what we are already trying to do, and you are at liberty to use; but I would rather not have it quoted or directly attributed. \. No, I would rather not, because they are estimates--an anticipating hope, so far. The figures themselves, I think, are the best statement of the case.  \. I think that is a safe statement. \. NO, it isn't the same type. \. Mr. Snyder makes the suggestion that it is not so fully set out in this budget as the estimate under the full employment bill would be set out.  Mr. Snyder: A forecast of it could--would be more fully developed under the full employment bill, and a plan for doing this, that, and the other would be exploited in there and laid out before you as proposed, which would be much beyond the scope of this proposed subject on producing a full employment budget soon.  THE PRESIDENT. If we are--if authorized to make one, we will.  \. It is anticipated on a prosperous full employment. \. How did you arrive at that?  Mr. Appleby: I think that is one of the questions you will have to call Weldon Jones on. There were certain assumptions, certain category assumptions at this level, so that did not involve a precise employment figure at this level. \. I don't understand that complicated question. State it again. \. For which we are very happy. \. I don't think that would be unsound at all. They would certainly be on the other side from unsound.  Mr. Snyder: It isn't going to be an annual procedure, our going from sudden full war to sudden full peace. I feel we have had just a turnaround there that involved elements that we couldn't possibly foresee. The rapidity with which the transition from war to peace took place, threw all those estimates out, but no one anticipated that the turnaround would be quite so rapid.  As it is today, we have got practically 95 percent of the physical reconversion completed. Well, that is pretty fast, don't you see, and it has taken up that unemployment slack much more rapidly than was expected, when we view this turnaround in light of the development of the war production that spread over a number of years, to switch it from peace to war. And we have turned around and done the job in a comparatively few months, back from war to peace again. \. That is correct, and if your estimate was too low you would be in awful shape.  I want to emphasize again that these questions are for clarification and for your information, that the Budget Message itself and the two Messages cover the ground completely. What we are trying to do is make a clarification, and I don't want--I want to emphasize again, as I said to Mr. Brandt, that I don't want these things--these questions and answers attributed to me as President. I am trying to help you this, because the Messages themselves for themselves in terms that I am to speak to the Congress.  \. No. \. I defined "substantial"as the proposed settlement of the United Steel Corporation. \. Decrease. Mr. Appleby: Because of war production \. I don't think so. \. I don't think so. \. Yes, but I don't think it will come this year. I don't think it will come this year.  \. That is always a possibility. I have been on the Appropriations-I was on the Appropriations Committee of the Senate for 10 years, and I am familiar with how those things are handled. \. No, it doesn't.  \. No, it is not. \. It is not. We are hoping that the Congress will legislate on that, and then we will be able to let the "bear" loose.  Mr. Smith: Well, Mr. President, those are budget--it is a secret item in the war.  THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know. Mr. Smith: The total is in the budget. Mr. Appleby: The total is in the budget, but then that improvement of weapons, and things of that sort, did not--we were not considering the atomic bomb when we were talking about those. \. Yes. Mr. Appleby: Atomic energy is in the budget.  THE PRESIDENT. Let's quit talking about the "atomic bomb." Let's talk about the release of atomic energy, which we hope to use for peacetime purposes. \. Well, that does not refer to the bomb. \. I will go along with you on that. Mr. Appleby: That is already agreed to.  THE PRESIDENT. It has been agreed to for next year. \. There will be nothing new in the Message. It has been signed and sent up for release, to be handed to the two bodies of the Congress on Monday, at 12 o'clock.  \. It does not indicate that at all. I am going to do everything I can to get MVA in 1946. \. Yes.\. That's right. If we get one, which I hope we will.  \. Is there? Mr. Appleby: Yes.  THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I am sure it is included.  Mr. Appleby: That is in the prospective legislation, so it is not identified here as a specific amount. \. Yes, I think he would. We don't know all those things. That, I am sure, was included in the anticipated expenditures. \. That figure is not for release, even if you found out what it is, because it is an estimate. \. I don't want that attributed yet. I will make the announcement later. It is in the Message. It is in the Message. And I don't think you need attribute it to me, because this Message is going to be attributed to me, I think.   There is one part of this budget that sets out the planning program for public works. I think if you read that carefully, it will answer a great many of your questions in regard to these anticipated public works programs.  \. They have always been larger, much larger than they show, because the White House expenditures have been met by the Interior Department, and the War Department, and the Navy Department, and the \. That is exactly right. The White House budget will show exactly what is expended in the White House and always has been. It isn't a greater amount than in past years. In fact, it's a little less. \. Couldn't identify, because it is covered under all of the various departments.  \. That's right. I approved it because it is necessary. It is a tremendous job. You have got to have the people to do the work, and get it done. That document that you are looking at there has been--I guess it has been 6 months of the hardest kind of work to get those figures together.  \. What was that? \. Yes, of course it does.  \. Yes.  Mr. Appleby:--but the total increase for the Department of Commerce is--the big figure is the CAA. \. From the Defense budget. A lot of those increases are not increases, because it is dropping of the Defense budget and putting it into the regular budget. \. Aviation. Mr. Appleby: Development of aviation on a peacetime basis could be said as one of the features of this kind, and for everything related to it. There will be substantial increases.   THE PRESIDENT. Referring back to that cutting of the cost of the Government, it is a downward trend--discharges of wartime employees which have been going on at a tremendous rate. \. That's all right. We want to make it as clear as we possibly can.  I say the phone will be at your service for any questions you want to ask. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. That was very interesting.  THE PRESIDENT. It is interesting to me. That is one of my hobbies. Note: President Truman's forty-fourth news conference was held in the Movie Room at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Saturday, January 19, 1946. The White House Official Reporter noted that John W. Snyder, Director, Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion, Harold D. Smith, Director, Bureau of the Budget, and Paul H. Appleby, Assistant Director, were present at the conference. 
