THE President.  I have no particular announcements to make today, except that we found some interesting receipts and documents signed by President Lincoln and Mrs. Lincoln in reference to some of the White House furniture about which there had been controversy. So anybody who is interested in those controversies will be welcome to take a look at these papers.  All I am open to now is questions.  
 I have no comment. 
 No, I do not. I have heard about it, but I have no comment on it because I haven't read the statement, so I can't possibly make a comment on it. If you want to ask me any specific questions on it, I might answer from my own viewpoint, but I can't  comment on Anderson.  
 The meatless days and the eggless days are for the purpose of saving grain, which is of vital importance, because it is expensive to feed grain to poultry and livestock; and when you save meat and save poultry products you save grain, and grain is what is necessary to meet the hunger situation in Europe. It is the most economical way to meet it.  
 We did not. He just paid me a courtesy call.  1 Joe Blythe, National Democratic Committeeman from North Carolina.  
 I have no comment to make on that. I never comment on people I am considering for a job. I will let you know when I make the appointment. 
 I have no comment. I don't like questions like that, either. 
 No, I have not. That fight was going on before I left, and I have never taken any part in it. I am not interested in Democrats fighting. I want harmony in the Democratic Party.  
 I think that was amply commented on yesterday by Secretary Lovett. And I want to reiterate again my viewpoint, that all this country has ever wanted is a lasting peace in the world, and prosperity in the world for the benefit of all the countries in the world. We have no--we have never asked for territory. We are not interested in the economic control of any country or any continent. 
 That is just like the propaganda here at home. I am used to it.  They got most of their information out of the papers here at home that have been in the political campaigns.  
 The only information I have on that is that the law provides--and I think I sent out a statement when it was signed--that these rent committees are locally appointed by the Governor of the State in which they operate, and that the Housing Expediter has no discretion except to accept their recommendations.  
 Well, that--it's a resurvey that has been going on ever since this proposition came up. We are still making an effort to find every dollar we can to meet the situation. My viewpoint on the subject hasn't changed a bit from that last answer I gave you on the subject, that I didn't think it would last beyond December 1st. 
 I can't answer the question. I am in the same frame of mind when I talked to you before.  
 I can't comment. I can't comment on that. I am telling you what the law provides. If you get out the law and read it, you will see exactly where the Expediter stands and where the administration stands. I would advise you to read my comment on the law when it was signed. 1   1  See Item 131.  
 I haven't seen any of them. 
 I don't remember whether they were or not. 
 I don't remember whether there were or not. There may have been. I saw the picture in the News this afternoon. 
 I saw that picture in the paper this afternoon. I have no comment to make on it. 
 Well, I don't think it's my province to disapprove of any sort of wearing apparel that anybody chooses to wear, as long as they want to.  
 I don't think it's necessary for me to take that position.  
 Oh yes. There is a rosewood bed over there, known as the Lincoln bed, and two dressers and a desk, and four Cabinet chairs, which are authentic, and are proven to be authentic by these bills which I have just run across in the file of the General Accounting Office. They are right interesting to anyone who is interested in that. 
 There are a lot of dishes over in the showroom over there that are marked as Lincoln pieces, and they are all specifically described in here, and it makes them all authentic. 
 Bills approved by President Lincoln and Mrs. Lincoln for those purchases. 
 Three hundred and seventy-five dollars. About the fourth item from the top. 
 No. He OK'd a bill for some $2600 there. Paid for a lot of other things, including draperies and things of that sort--curtains for the bed, and one thing and another.  
 We have been taking steps on that ever since the matter came up, of course. Done everything we possibly can. 
 I can't answer the question. We haven't found any way as yet.  
 I can't answer the question. I don't know. What I am after is 10 million bushels of grain, to feed hungry people, from the distilleries.  
 Well, it has always been urgent. I don't think it's any more urgent, no matter what anybody did. It's just as urgent now as it was in the beginning.  
 No, I haven't any comment on it.  1  Representative J. Parnell Thomas of New Jersey.  
 That's right. 
 I think that is correct. I can't quote that statement exactly, but I am sure that was in it, and that the local people themselves would have to be careful to look after their recommendations and see that people went on that board that were not prejudiced one way or the other. 
 I don't think Mr. Creedon had any discretion in the matter, if you read the law. 
 You will have to question Mr. Creedon on that. I am not making recommendations for him.  
 I don't think they will refuse.  
 NO. Vital importance. 
 Yes, you can quote that. 
 The answer to the question I think you can quote, if you feel like it. It's a statement of the facts.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
