  I want to start this thing off with a couple of readings here which will clear up a lot of things for you if you haven't read the Budget Message. This is in addition to the message.   "Since drafting the Budget Message, we have completed our studies of the need for an appreciable increase in the production of fissionable material. Accordingly, I have directed the Atomic Energy Commission, in cooperation with the Department of Defense and the Office of Defense Mobilization, to prepare a program for submission to the Congress at its current session.  "While these plans will require immediate authority to begin letting between 5 and 6 billion dollars of contracts, the major cash expenditures for this purpose will not occur until after the fiscal year 1953. Therefore, the expenditures for the fiscal years 1952 and 1953 will not be materially affected by this increase in the atomic energy program."   Now, I am going to do something I seldom ever do. I am going to read you a couple of pages out of the Budget Message, which will explain a lot of things that you will be asking me. And it is most important.   "The expenditures are estimated at $85.4 billion, an increase of $14.5 billion over the current fiscal year, and $45.3 billion over 1950, the last full fiscal year before the attack on Korea.  "Receipts under our present tax laws are estimated at $71 billion, an increase of $8.3 billion over the current fiscal year, and $34 billion over 1950.  "The increase in receipts will fall short of meeting the increase in expenditures. In the absence of new revenue legislation, a deficit of 14.4 billion is in prospect for the fiscal year 1953, 6.2 billion greater than the estimated deficit for the current fiscal year.  "Eighteen months ago the unprovoked attack upon the Republic of Korea made it clear that the Kremlin would not hesitate to resort to war in order to gain its ends. In the face of this grim evidence, this Nation and the other nations of the free world realized that they must rearm in order to survive.  "Since then we have made significant progress in rebuilding our defenses. We have more than doubled the strength of our Armed Forces. We have increased the number of our Army divisions from 10 to 18. We have returned to duty more than 160 combatant vessels from our 'mothball' fleet. We have added more than 40 wings to our Air Force. We have greatly expanded our production of military equipment and our ability to mobilize for any emergency. We have provided our allies overseas with the critical margin of aid necessary to help them grow stronger.  "This Budget reflects the progress we have made thus far, and it lays the groundwork for further progress."  Now, this is the important page I want you to pay particular attention to.  "It reflects our progress to date in two ways. First, the high rate of expenditures for military equipment estimated for 1953 reflects the results of the tremendous effort that has been made during the past 18 months in getting the flow of production started. Second, the smaller amount of new obligational authority which I am recommending indicates the substantial portion of the financial requirements for our military buildup that has been met in the appropriations already made by the Congress.  "This Budget lays the groundwork for further progress by providing for additional increases in the strength of our Armed Forces, additional deliveries of arms to our allies overseas, continued requirements of our atomic energy program, and further development of our economic strength. By the end of the fiscal year 1953, we will have reached or passed the peak production rates for all of our major military items except some of the newer model aircraft and some weapons not yet in production.  "This Budget calls for the largest expenditures in any year since World War II. It will involve a heavy burden for our taxpayers, because the job of building the strength we need to safeguard the security of this Nation is enormously expensive."  And that means the security of the world as a whole from communism.   "Despite its size, this is not a Budget for all-out mobilization. It is a Budget carefully planned to carry us a long way forward on the road to security-at a pace which is not only within our present economic capacity but which will enable us to grow stronger in the years to come.  "If new international tensions do not develop, and if no further aggression is attempted, I hope we will be able to reduce the Budget expenditures after fiscal year 1954. By then we should have completed most of our currently planned military expansion.  "More than three-fourths of the total expenditures"--and this is important--"included in this Budget are for major national security programs--military services, international security and foreign relations, the development of atomic energy, the promotion of defense production and the economic stabilization, civil defense, and merchant marine activities."   Now then, I want to turn over to Page MII,   1  and in the middle of the page you will find Borrowing and the Public Debt.   1  page references in parentheses, throughout this news conference, indicate where the subjects referred to may be found in the Budget Message as printed herein ; all other references correspond to the page numbers in the Budget as published in House Document 285 .   "On the basis of present tax rates, it is estimated that the public debt will increase from 255 billion at the beginning of the current fiscal year to 260 billion by June 30, 1952, and to $275 billion by June 30, 1953--the present statutory limit.  "The prospective debt increase makes it essential that the Government continue to follow policies in the new financing and refunding of maturing issues which reinforce the economic stabilization program. The American people can help the stabilization program by continuing to purchase savings bonds and by taking other steps to increase new savings. The millions of people who own savings bonds maturing in the near future can also help to combat inflation by keeping their bonds and allowing them to continue accumulating interest, rather than cashing them at this time. Legislation enacted last year permits the holders of these bonds to earn interest on them for another 10 years without the necessity of exchanging them for new bonds."  And that is most important.  Now, when I came in here, the national debt was $280 billion. We succeeded in reducing it to 251 billion. But that reduction was greater than the national debt when we got into World War II. Due to the fact that we haven't been able to get the pay-as-you-go policy implemented as it should have been, we are climbing back on the national debt; but that is not an alarming situation because the national income is--well, it's the difference between 40 or 50 billions in 1934 and 284 billions, I believe it was estimated this year. National production is about 330 billions. And the relationship between the national obligations and the national expenditures is well below what it was in the years when we had to spend so much money for an actual all-out war.  I wanted to get that perfectly plain in your minds, because the country is in good shape, financially and physically; and we have been able to impose the defense program on the national economy without very much letup in the things and services that people think they ought to have.  Now I will try to answer questions.  \. Between 5 and 6 billions. \. Between 5 and 6 billions. But that will not come--be a burden on the economy for a year or two yet. \. Well, the reason for the increase is due to the fact that we have--as I said in San Francisco--some fantastic weapons for which we have to prepare, which in the long run will save us money.  \. Not this time, no. It isn't necessary yet. \. 1954. Principal expenditures on this increase will be in 1954 and 1955. \. Well, let's wait and see, let's wait and see.  \. That is the hope. I can't say that categorically, but that is the hope.  \. The statement on the-taxes in the Economic and Budget Messages are all the statements that I intend to make. They state the facts, and it is up to the Congress after that. \. No. \. That program of last year is the one I want. We did not get it finished, and that is what I said in both these messages, and it is very carefully set out in last year's special tax message.  Joseph Short : In the interest of everyone here, will the questioner please stand and speak clearly?  THE PRESIDENT. This room has acoustic properties like my oval room in the office in the White House. It isn't nearly so good as the one we use for press conferences, but it has more room and more seats.  And that is the reason we come over here.  \. In about 5 years. \. Yes. That is a statement that has to be taken with a grain of salt. We don't know exactly how long it will take. \. I do. I wouldn't agree to it if I didn't think so. \. That's a fact. \. The whole thing of--this thing is done in the interest of peace in the world. \. I hope so. I can only hope. That is what I am hoping for all the time.  \. That is the financing that goes on all the time. We hope that there will be more savings bonds bought which will be of great help in preventing inflation, and also it will help in the re financing of the program. \. That's right.  \. As quickly as it can be done. That is a matter that the Air force and the Defense Department are working on, and I can't give you an exact date. \. I can't give you an exact date.  \. I will let the Budget Director answer that.  Director Lawton: 72 billion. 72.8.  THE PRESIDENT. I was going to say 71.  Director Lawton: 72.8.  \. Contract authorization, that is correct. Contract authorization, that's right. \. Facilities. \. No. They go together, though. They should go together. The decrease in the obligational authority for the Defense Department was because it is not physically possible for them to spend the money, and there is no use making an obligation when they can't get the material that they are asking for, and you can't spend the money, so when they cut the obligational authority down for this year, it doesn't in any way hamper the defense program.  \. You cannot. I never was in favor of it, and I am not yet. I had some experience after the first World War in that line. You remember we had a lot of 4 1/4 percent bonds at that time, and the people who were working on the very situation you talk about ran those bonds down to 80 or 82--I forget which it was--and we bought them all up, and after that they sold for 125, until they expired. The people who put their savings into these bonds ought to be protected, just the same as the bankers ought to be protected. That is my theory. That has always been my theory. That is the theory of the Secretary of the Treasury. \. You answer it, John.  Secretary Snyder: On the savings bonds program, the E's, F's, and G's--what you have stated is true. There is a new arrangement there for protecting the face value of the bonds. However, what the President was saying was that there was a lot of savings that went into the regular issues also, and they are the ones that he had in mind.  THE PRESIDENT. That's right--the long-term bonds.  \. Eventually, yes. As soon as I have all the information at hand I hope to do that. The only flood control program included in this budget--the Missouri Valley, which was almost ruined this last spring, and the dam at Keokuk. That dam is disintegrating. When it was built they didn't know how to use concrete very well, and it is about to go down the river, and we have got to save it if we can. \. We are trying to find the answer. Nobody knows the answer. For instance, if disaster should befall us so that New York, Philadelphia, or Chicago should be wiped out, the figures in regard to that situation are fantastic. And we haven't yet found a way to meet a disaster insurance situation. And we are working on it. We have all the great insurance companies and everybody else advising us on the subject.  \. I may, if it becomes necessary. I am going to talk to those people and see if we can't get some action. If we can't, why I'll make a speech on it.  \. Well, no, it isn't. It's the first installment on the present program. That 5 or 6 billion will come later. \. That's right, that is in addition.  \. It depends altogether on our ability to obtain scarce materials. It may and it may not. If we can get the material, it will not. That's the difficulty--strategic metals and things that are hard to get, and if we can't get the metals we have got to meet the program. We have made some cutbacks on automobiles and refrigerators, and things of that kind. I hope we won't have to go much further with it. \. No, I do not. The lag between the order and the plane is so great that that will have no effect on it at all. You see, I have had plenty of experience on that. I used to go around and "'punch" the companies, and try to get things off the line in 1943 and 1944. And usually when they came off the line they were obsolete, and we had to build them over. That is what we want to avoid if we can, in this instance.  \. That was 1953  Director Lawton: 71.7.  THE PRESIDENT. That figure went into 1953.  Director Lawton: 71.7. \. About the same.  \. Principally in new starts on reclamation and flood control, and things of that sort.  This budget has been the biggest headache I have ever had. This is my seventh or eighth budget--I think the seventh one I have made since I have been President. I had a hand in implementing 15 more before that, as a Member of the Appropriations Committee of the Senate. And I have never had as much difficulty getting the budget in shape, so I could send it to the Congress, as I have with this one. We have been working on it since the first day of September. I think you can tell that, because I can answer your questions.  \. You don't need any explanation for that. You know, there are 531 fellows down the street here that have to work on the budget, and they have to work in cooperation with me if they are going to get anything done. \. No. I am referring to Congress and the executive branch of the Government. I never call myself "we." I say 'I' when it is necessary. I don't wear a crown yet.   \. I will answer that question at a later date.  \. I am not sure whether it does or not, because I haven't got the details on it yet. I think probably it does.  It includes one, the Budget Director says. \. One more.  \. Good. Go ahead, May.  2   \. I support Mr. Churchill's answer.    2  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.    3  Winston S. Churchill, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.  \. I have never made a budget yet that I didn't think was correct. The figures in this budget can be supported by evidence that I think is incontrovertible. The Congress did not try to cut the budget in detail, they made an across the board percentage proposition, which is entirely contrary to the Constitution. When I send the budget to the Congress, they are supposed to take it item by item, and decide whether that is right or wrong. When they work that out on a percentage cut, why it's all wrong.  \. 274?  Secretary Snyder: 256.  THE PRESIDENT. 256?  Secretary Snyder: 265--I beg your pardon, 265.  THE PRESIDENT. John, I thought it was 274?  Secretary Snyder: Personal income, 265.  THE PRESIDENT. 265, that's right.  Secretary Snyder: This year's was on 251. \. 280--285. But the national product is a thing you have to consider.  Secretary Snyder: That is still higher.  THE PRESIDENT. 330 billion, if I remember correctly. \. That's right.  \. No. We won't go into that in detail. This atomic business is a very touchy subject. I wish you would get off it as much as you can. I have given you all the facts possible in this little statement I have made here, and details you can't go into at this time. When it comes time so I can put out the details, you will have them all. \. No, it will not be. Not this year.  \. I don't understand the question? \. I haven't given it much thought. I think it ought to go up to 6,000, probably.  \. That's right. \. Canada is going to build it on her own, if we don't go into partnership with her--they have assured me of that--and then we are going to have to pay taxes to Canada. \. Canada then will get all the fees that go with the operation of the Canadian--of the St. Lawrence Seaway, and we will pay toll on it because we have got to use it. Otherwise we would be in partnership and split the thing 50-50.  \. I think I have covered that in the Message on the State of the Union, and as soon as the health commission reports I will have-- \. My mind hasn't changed on it. \. No, there isn't any item, because we are waiting to get more information on the subject.  \. When the time comes to ask for it, why of course it will be contract authority. \. It will be--  Director Lawton: It will be obligational authority. Whether it is in that full amount immediately, or whether it will be necessary between now and the next 2 fiscal years will be the question. As to whether it goes up to this first amount, it may be something less than the first request, but some more to come in a subsequent request--but that is the total. It will be at this session of Congress.  THE PRESIDENT. The request will be made at this session, won't it? I wasn't sure whether we had to make this request this session, or wait; because we can t do anything about it for some time to come.  The Budget Director tells me there is a lot of machinery that has to be ordered far in advance--takes 2 or 3 years to get.  \. No, I have not. I think I covered that in the Message on the State of the Union--also the Economic Message.  \. Oh, yes. They always holler. What's the use of giving something they can't use? When it comes time, we always meet the necessities. \. Go ahead, it's all right. \. I am not sure about that. Is that a fact?  Director Lawton: It includes all amendments to that effect--the act as it stands today--the authorities as it stands today. \. It must have been an amendment. It must have been an amendment.  Director Lawton: An amendment to the act, title 12.  \. I asked for an average raise of $5 a month on it in the message here. \. I don't know anything about the details. I never was in social security except as employment director of Missouri, one time.  \. Well, you know, I will answer that question in a kind of a round about way. When people come up to the President with a request they always ask for plenty, and they know they are not going to get it. So the Budget Director holds hearings on it, and he has all the facts before him, and then he and I sit down and decide how much they are entitled to, and that is what they get. And sometimes they go down to Congress and increase it, and sometimes they go down there and get their heads cut off.   4  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.\. No. You know better than that. What I am trying to get is a pay-as-you-go program, just like I wanted when we started out, and we can afford it. That's the reason I asked for the taxes. I would like to reduce that national debt if I could, just as I did in the first place. And that is what the request is for. It has nothing to do with these people who are asking for money. Everybody asks the Government for all the money they think they can get, but sometimes they don't get it--not if I can help it.  \. In the same manner that they are chosen now. We have had them all the time. Hardly a month goes by that I don't address some organization of people who are going to school in this country, or address some people who are going to school in other countries. It will be handled in exactly the same way as it is now. It is handled in the State Department.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninetieth news conference was held in the Department of State Auditorium at 10 a.m. on Saturday, January 19, 1952. The President was assisted in presenting information on the budget by John W. Snyder, Secretary of the Treasury, and by Frederick J. Lawton, Director of the Bureau of the Budget. 
