 Well, gentlemen, I have no announcements to make, so I am open for questions.    They're- Congress is making an investigation of that situation now, and it's their move to act upon it.    Yes. It was the usual conversation with the Secretary of State, and covered a number of things.    Well, it's in effect and working right along.   I don't know what you refer to.   Oh well, that's a matter for the Senate itself to decide upon, and I did not have a hand in that at all.    I have her under consideration. I will tell you about that when I get ready to make the appointment.   A lot of people under consideration.    Well, yes, I will be glad to tell you what they were. We discussed China. We discussed South America. We discussed Germany. We discussed Palestine, and anything else around the world that happened to come by us.    I have not discussed that matter with him as yet.    I know nothing about it-I know nothing about it. That's the first I've heard of it.   I didn't talk to him. I didn't even know he was in the country.    I think we ought to hold the line on rent control, but of course the Congress will have to act on that.    I have invited him to pay a visit to the President of the United States, and I hope he accepts.    I am very happy that Mr. Ford in his statement says that he was following out the suggestion that I made in the message, and I appreciate it very highly. I think he made a proper move, and I hope a lot more people will do the same thing.    NO, Of course not.   I did not.   No, I never discussed the speech. He is a free agent.     I did not know he was indicted, and I have no comment.    NO, I haven't.    They are in the course of preparation and will be submitted as soon as ready.    We discussed the whole Puerto Rican situation when he was in here this morning. We shall discuss it again at the Cabinet meeting tomorrow, in an effort to help the Puerto Ricans to help themselves.    We haven't. General Marshall has asked the top-ranking personages in the State Department to stay.   I don't know anything about that. You had better ask General Marshall. He has a free hand over there.   The matter was discussed with General Marshall.   No.   Well, he was--it was the customary meeting with an Assistant Secretary of State who requested to see the President. We discussed the things in which he was interested.    Yes he has. I had a fine interview with Mr. Hannegan the day he got back here; and he looks fine.   I urged him to stay.    Both.   I urged him to stay on as National Chairman. I thought he was a good one, and I still think so.   I hope he will. I can't answer that question until it is--his health situation is finally worked out, as it has further to go before complete recovery.   I sure do.   I don't know. I am not, Miss May 1   They have a great--it's a great strain on people that are around the White House, and in more ways than one it seems to have a worse effect on all of them than it does on the President himself, from a physical standpoint.  1  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.    I have not discussed that with General Marshall as yet. I will give you my views as soon as I have had a chance to discuss it with him.    NO I haven't.    That's the reason for the investigation in the committees of Congress. That's a matter that the Congress will have to pass upon.    No. There have been so many rumors and speculations around the United States as to whether he was going to quit or not, and so the first thing I told him when he came in the door was that "I want you to stay as Chairman and Postmaster General." And that is as far as the conversation went.   Right here in this chair.    He was very much pleased and he said he would give me his answer as soon as he was sure that his health was all right.    Yes?   I saw it in the paper for the first time. First time I heard of it, and I didn't know it was being picketed. I wanted to see that show. I wanted to see that for 20 years, so I went down there and saw it.    That's the first time I have seen "Blossom Time."  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
