  Practically all the Cabinet officers, and heads of all the agencies, and the advisory committee set up by the Congress, have stated that the office being vacated by Mr. Snyder ought to be continued. And for that reason, I am appointing John Steelman to take over that job, and he will still continue to be the White House labor adviser, at the suggestion of the Secretary of Labor.  That's the only announcement I have to make.   That's right.   That's right.    Max Gardner has been trying to resign ever since he was made Under Secretary of the Treasury, and we have so far been able to persuade him to ten main. I don't know whether he will stay or not. I would like to have him, of course, if he will.    I can't answer that question until OPA is before me, and I don't know what will be in it.    No, I don't. I am informed by the Labor Department that there is a very good chance that it will be settled before the day is over.    I have it still under advisement.   The Allis-Chalmers people are still negotiating. They may be able to settle it without any interference from the Government; I hope they will be.    Mr. Baruch has been informed of the policy of the President with regard to atomic energy, and I haven't seen his statement, but I imagine he is following the policy as it was outlined to him by myself and the Secretary of State.   No. It's the policy outlined in the directive which I sent to Mr. Baruch.    I have not yet got to the point where I can consider that.    Justice Jackson wired me on Sunday substantially what he released in Germany, and I suggested to him that he not release it until he had had a chance to talk with me. 1  1 The statement, released in Nuremberg, Germany, where Justice Jackson was on leave from the Supreme Court to serve as chief American prosecutor at the war crimes trials, was in the form of a cablegram to the Senate and House Judiciary Committees considering the nomination of Secretary of the Treasury Fred M. Vinson as Chief Justice. It concerned a much publicized feud within the Court, a controversy which Justice Jackson noted "goes to the reputation of the Court for nonpartisan and unbiased decision." The statement, dated June is printed in the Congressional Record .   He did not.   I have no comment on that.   I never discussed the appointment of the Chief Justice of the United States with any member of the Supreme Court.    Not that I know of.    No. I have made no indications of that sort.    I am going to appoint Mr. McNutt Ambassador to the Philippines. It will be going down today or tomorrow-very soon. He will be Ambassador--the first Ambassador to the Philippines.    No. I have nothing to say on that, about Puerto Rico.    I don't think the word recall was used.   I made the statement--I am not correcting you--they did say that-whoever did say that said recall--I made the statement to those ministers and bishops who were in here, representing all the Protestant churches, that Mr. Taylor had a special mission to perform. He was sent to Rome by President Roosevelt, to aid in keeping the peace; and I had sent him back, in order to aid in making the peace, and that when the purposes had been accomplished, there would be no official representative of the President at the Vatican.  I don't know how long that will take. However long it takes, we will go through with the thing to the end.   Peace in the world.    I haven't seen Mr. Bevin's statement, and it is not--it has not been officially communicated to me; so therefore I have no comment to make on it.  We still are urging the entry of one hundred thousand of these refugee Jews in Germany to Palestine, and are endeavoring to arrive at a means by which that can be done. We are in communication with England now, for that purpose.   You know what the immigration laws of the United States are. We have to comply with them.   I do not.   That's what this committee is going to England for, to discuss it with the English to see if we can arrive at an agreement.   The special committee that was appointed by the Executive order the other morning, consisting of the Secretary of War, Secretary of State, and Secretary of Treasury.   I never comment on legislation until it is before me. Then I will analyze it, and I will let you know more about it.    I am familiar with the so-called Overton plan. I was on the Appropriations Committee in the Senate when Senator Overton worked out that bill. I don't know anything about the new plan, but the suggestions and the equitable approach to it that the Overton plan followed is a good thing. I was in favor of the Overton plan when it was first suggested.   The Overton plan contemplated the boost in the lump sum. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
