 Please be seated.   I understand there are some visiting editors and some people from ASNE here today. On account of the fact that I found it impossible to appear at their meeting, if they will meet me over here in the side room, I will be glad to shake hands with them.  1    1  President Truman had been scheduled to address the annual meeting of the American Society of Newspaper Editors on Thursday, April 19, but he had canceled it in order not to interfere in any way with General MacArthur's appearance before the Congress at 12:30 p.m. that day. For the same reason the regular Thursday news conference was held on Wednesday.   I want to say something before we start that will save you a lot of misery. My position on the Far Eastern situation is well known. General MacArthur is coming here tomorrow to state his position, and therefore for that reason there is no use your asking me any questions that .pertain to those two subjects. So now we're ready to go forward with the press conference.   Why do you have to quote that? I am just making a statement as to how the press conference is to be operated. There is no sense in your quoting it. No!   May,  2   I got a card today with your picture on it and a whole lot of things about you.   2  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.   I thought it was.   I am working on it now. I was very happy at the way my advisory commission is working out. It is accomplishing just the thing that I set it up to do, and I think before we get through we'll have the thing in operating order so we can go right ahead with the program.  3    3  See Item 74.    We are working on it now. It takes a little time to get ready. I hope in the next 10 days, but I can't guarantee that.  4    4  See Item 91.    Yes, it does. That is what I set it up for. When you get a majority of three to one, it is about time to operate.   We will have to work the thing out as we go along. We're making steps forward. I am making no positive statements on anything. We will cross that bridge when we get to it.    It has not been put up to the administration.    It would be similar to the guarantees that are in the Atlantic Pact. They will be modeled on that treaty. That is what is intended to be conveyed there.   5  See Item 84.    I haven't gone into that. I think it has been the custom ever since the Government has been in existence, and so I can't answer your question without looking up the facts. I don't know what you are aiming at.   Well, now, that is a matter I think you ought to take up with the Air Force. I don't know anything about it. It is news to me.   I have no statement to make on it. You are not going to get me on record on anything.  You talk to Harry Byrd  6  about that. He will tell you more about it!   6  Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia.    That comes under the statement that I made at the beginning of this.   No, I don't. There is one way for him to find Duff   Well, I think that is a matter you amateur historians ought to look up. It is very interesting.    He did not; he went on his own hook.  He was going in behalf of his Committee, I think. His trip was entirely a legitimate one for the Congressman.  What was the question back there?   7  Senator Warren G. Magnuson of Washington, member of the Senate Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee.    I was very happy over the results of the Pan American Foreign Ministers Conference.  8  I think I issued a statement on that subject; I am not sure.   8  See Items 67 and 76.    I am very happy, as the State Department expressed my views. They submitted that statement to me before it was issued and I am in complete accord with it.   9    9  The statement, released by the State Department on April 18, is as follows:  "According to press reports, the ministers of six countries meeting in Paris to complete negotiation on political provisions of the Schuman plan have agreed on the major issues and this morning have formally signed the text.  "The department wishes to state that the ability of the ministers to reach a decision on the variety of complex and delicate issues with which they were confronted provides striking evidence of the constructive spirit and continuing good will which have characterized the Schuman plan negotiations from the very first. The early ratification of the plan by the parliaments of the six countries would go far toward convincing the world that Western Europe has the courage and the ability to develop the solidarity which is essential for the survival of the free world."    I think Mr. Short answered that question, and he would not have made it if he hadn't had the permission of the President. Mr. Short has learned a lot of things now. He makes no tactical errors like that.   10  Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President.    What statement?   He wanted to quote it verbatim here. There is nothing in the world to prevent you from putting up an alibi and your paraphrasing the thing.   That's all right.   Well, I said I didn't want this quoted verbatim. Now, you can paraphrase it; if you want to make an alibi that you couldn't get any answers out of me that will be all right!    I don't think so!  Reporter: Thank you, sir.
