  I have one announcement to make today. On the 5th day of January, at 1 o'clock in the afternoon, I will deliver the State of the Union Message to a joint session of the Congress. That arrangement was reached after consultation with the Vice President-elect and Majority Leader of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives and Majority Leader of the House.    I have made my position perfectly clear on that subject, and I have nothing further to say on it. My position hasn't changed. Period.    That question will be answered in the Message on the State of the Union.   My views on that subject will be stated to the Congress in two messages-maybe three messages. The Economic Message--there will be the Message on the State of the Union--and there will be the Budget Message, which I will discuss with you in detail when the Budget Message is ready.   My position will be stated in those various messages which will go down to the Congress.    Well, I have been in the habit, on occasion, of having luncheon with a member of the Cabinet when he has other members of the Cabinet present for lunch. It was a social affair.    I will answer that in my messages to the Congress on the subject.    No, there isn't, because I haven't seen that report. 1  I will take it under consideration when it comes in, then probably comment on it at the time, or I will send a message to Congress on the subject.  1  The Task Force Report on National Security Organization prepared for the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government by the Committee on the National Security Organization .    I do.   No change, so far as I am concerned. I announced my position during the campaign, and it hasn't changed.    No.   That will be a separate message.    I think the daisy picking is on the other side of the fence. I am for the St. Lawrence Seaway and power project as outlined in my message to Congress on the subject, and it is a matter that is to be decided by the Canadian Government and the United States Government, and not between any State or Province of Canada.   I certainly shall. Yes, indeed.   No comment. My messages are very clear on what I want on the St. Lawrence, if you will read them. I sent three messages to Congress on the subject.    I would not.  I want you to distinctly understand that I didn't ask for any raise. I vetoed the tax bill, which automatically raised my salary. I am not interested in that, but I am interested in the heads of the Government departments receiving a raise in salary, and I think the Vice President ought to have a raise.    I have no plans.    I have no comment to make on that. I am in harmony with the Inaugural Committee, and they are carrying out the plans as approved by me.  1  Maj. Gen. Harry H. Vaughan, Military Aide to the President.   She wanted to know if I agreed with General Vaughan's comments on the inaugural plans. General Vaughan said he never remembers having made any such statements for publication.     I have not.    No particular progress since the last conversation. He is making a survey of the situation, as I told you before.    Never heard of it. Only what I saw in the paper.    Nothing further.    I don't. The date has not been set. I want to go as soon as I can get away from this desk, which gets higher and higher all the time. I am going to leave as soon as I can. I will let you know exactly when I can leave.    I hope it will go a couple of days after the Message on the State of the Union. It will go after that, on the following Friday or the following Monday, if I can get it ready.   The Economic Message may come in between. You will just have to take them as they come.   I don't think it will be necessary. There will be a message on it, if we don't accomplish the purpose.   It will be in the Message on the State of the Union.    I think I have answered that question often enough. I don't intend to talk any more about it. You know where I stand on the subject.   I will say nothing about it. I will say nothing about it. I told you that very plainly. It's a closed incident, far as I am concerned.    No comment.    The Attorney General is working on that situation, and has been for a year. It is a very difficult matter to do and still stay within the Bill of Rights.   You're welcome.
