  I want to announce the appointment of Francis Biddle to represent the United States on the International Court to try war criminals. Federal Judge John J. Parker is his alternate.  I announce the appointment of E. Barrett Prettyman of Washington, D.C., to succeed Justin Miller as Associate Justice of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.   Justin Miller. Mr. Ross will have you a release on their lives and who they are succeeding, and everything, after this is over.  I announce the appointment of former Senator Bennett Champ Clark to be Associate Justice of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, succeeding Thurman Arnold, resigned.  I announce the appointment of Wilbur K. Miller to be an Associate Justice of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to succeed Fred M. Vinson.   Owensboro, Kentucky.   Wilbur K., W-i-l-b-u-r.   United States Court of Appeals.  I am appointing Alexander Holtzoff of Chicago to be Associate Justice of the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.   Holtzoff, H-o-l-t-z-o-f-f.   He lives here in Washington. Biographical sketches will be given out by the press office.  I'm appointing John J. O'Connell of Pittsburgh to be Judge of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, a new position created by the Congress. He lives at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  I announce the appointment of Harrington Wimberly of Oklahoma to be a member of the Federal Power Commission, succeeding--   W-i-m-b-e-r-l-y.   Altus, Oklahoma--A-l-t-u-s.   Yes, succeeding Basil Manly, and you will be furnished details on that by Mr. Ross.   Yes. Manly's resignation takes place--is effective the 1st of October.   Yes.  I announce the appointment of Richard Sachse to be a member of the Federal Power Commission, succeeding John W. Scott.   Succeeding John W. Scott Sachse is from California; I don't know what town. He's on the Railroad Commission of the State of California. I don't know what his home town is; I think he lives in southern California, though.  I announce the resignation of Elmer Davis. Neil Dalton has been appointed to carry out the liquidation of the Office of War Information. You will find an exchange of letters on that.   No, I don't.  Voice: Louisville.   D-a-l-t-o-n.   Yes, Neil Dalton.  Gael E. Sullivan to be Second Assistant Postmaster General in the place of Smith Purdum, effective October 1st. Don't seem to have anything on him. He takes the place of Smith Purdum.   Gael Sullivan, G-a-e-i S-u-l-l-i-v-a-n. He takes the place of Purdum, P-u-r-d-u-m.   Chicago.    To quote Justice Roberts himself, he wanted to take it, but he said he had been working so long and so continuously that he thought he was entitled to a rest and he would rather not take it, so we had to let him off.    My statement is in the message. When the bill comes to me I will comment on it.    I think it is a perfectly silly conclusion.    Yes. That is just what I think. Great Britain is entitled to the sort of government Great Britain wants, and I think it is none of our affair so long as we are friendly with Great Britain.    I think the government will be worked out in the manner that it should be worked out, and I think if Australia will be just a little patient she will be satisfied with what is done.    It is a theater decision and it is a practical matter. As soon as it is possible to remove the Japanese, they will be removed. The policy toward Korea will be announced later.   What do you mean?   I would suggest that you ask General MacArthur what the conditions are. He can tell you better than anyone else.    I'm a Democrat.    I have not. I didn't appoint them from a political point of view but for their fitness for the place.   You'll have to work that out by the acts as they come forward. I'll give you no leads on that.    I'm going down there to pay a visit to the district of Mr. Doughton--a promise which I made while I was Vice President. It has no connection with his place with the Ways and Means Committee of the House. He and I have been friends for a long time.    I have been trying to make arrangements to attend; I don't want to say definitely that I will go.    I read that communication at Potsdam. It is a communication for the foreign ministers conference in London.   Not that I know of. I have had no direct communication with Turkey.    That is a matter that the Labor Department will decide.   Not yet. I will be able to make an announcement on that in a few days.   I am still considering men for the Supreme Court. I have reached no decision.   I don't want to answer that question.   That is a matter for Mr. Stimson to announce at the proper time. I have no comment to make on that now.  Voice: Thank you, Mr. President.   You're welcome.
