 I have no special announcements to make to you today. If you want to ask any questions, I will try to answer them.  
 Mr. Steelman is handling that, and we will let you know if anything occurs.  
 I have not. The only invitation I have from Los Angeles I accepted. That is from the press club.  
 I can't answer that categorically. We have done and are doing everything we possibly can to avert the strike, under the Railroad Labor Act. 
 They have not.  
 I don't think the effort has failed. The effort is still being made. We are doing everything we possibly can to prevent bloodshed, and are trying to get the Palestine matter settled on a peaceable basis. That has always been our objective from the very beginning. In 1946, when the argument first started--our endeavor has ways been to get a peaceable settlement without people getting killed and the holy places being disturbed. 
 I would have given them one, if anybody wanted to go to the Holy Land and really negotiate in dead earnest. I would be glad to do anything that would help the matter along. 
 I have been in no communication with the British on the subject at all, except through the United Nations. 
 The United States Government is putting forth every effort, through the United Nations, to get this thing settled. I don't know what the United Nations have asked the British to do.  
 It has not. 
 Plan no move yet.  
 Your explanation would be as good as mine, so you work out one for yourself. I am trying to keep the peace, that's all I am trying to do. Keep the country running. 
 I have sent numerous messages to the Congress on that subject, and there is no reason for me to comment on it now. 
 On the labor situation and the way to handle it.  
 The matter has not been taken up with me. All I know about it is what I have seen in the papers. I haven't been in communication with the Governor on the subject, and I can't comment on it. 
 Well, that is a matter that will have to be settled, if the thing comes to a concrete stage.  
 We will see what develops, and then I will answer that question.  
 I have no comment to make on that. 
 I have no comment.  
 I don't know. I can't answer it until I get the information on the subject, to find out what the law is. I can't answer that question offhand. 
 I see. When it comes up to me for consideration, I will act on it, because the matter has to be taken care of.  
 Yes, I had that referred, Miss May. 1  I have asked the State Department to make the reference, but that is for the United States Government and not for the government of Maine.  1  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 Yes, for the United States Government, and not for the State of Maine. 
 I have asked the State Department to do that. 
 Yes. Well, there's a difference in your question and Mr. Wright's. 2   2  James L. Wright of the Buffalo Evening News.  
 No, I have no comment. There has been a lot of comment, and it's all good!  
 I have no comment!   
 I have no comment on the Alabama primary.  
 No, not yet. As soon as he is selected, I will announce it at once.  
 I am not ready to make an announcement.  
 I think that is the most asinine proposition I have seen yet!  
 I am not.  
 Yes, I do. That is the reason I am working at it.  
 Yes, I would.   Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
