  I have a couple of announcements to make. I sent down a ',thank you" letter to General Eisenhower for his help on the reorganization bill. 1   1 See Item 180.  And, I am appointing General Bradley to be Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff; and have appointed Admiral Denfeld to be Chief of Naval Operations for another 2 years, from December 15, 1949. That's all the-- 
 Two years from next December 15th, yes. 
 Chief of Naval Operations. 
 That is a reappointment. Well, this letter, I want to tell you, is available for distribution when you go out-this letter to Eisenhower.  
 No. I am not ready to make that announcement yet.  
 No. No, I have not.  
 I think I made a statement to you about 2 years ago, when this same agitation was in force, that General MacArthur is at liberty to come home whenever he sees fit. Of course, it requires an order from the Commander in Chief to bring him home, but he hasn't indicated that he wants to come.  
 What's that?  Say that again. It sounded funny to me. 
 I don't know what that is, but I don't think so.   
 No, I haven't seen the whole statement, but-- 
 --we have been appointing boards like that for--if I am not mistaken--for 15 or 20 years, and it hasn't ruined the country. Been very helpful. 
 Oh no, it isn't anything of the kind.  
 Yes, we are working at it now. 
 That is not intended to avoid public bidding. It is a practical matter that is being worked out as fast as we can work it out. It takes a little time to do a thing of that kind, and if we get a concrete result in 3 or 4 months, we will be doing pretty well. 
 Whatever steps are necessary to implement the program as soon as it is ready to go forward. If it takes an order, I will issue it.  
 I don't know the contents of the bill, and haven't read it, so I can't comment on it. When it comes up here to me, then I will either sign it or tell you why I won't. 2   2  See Item 239.  
 I have no comment on that statement because I don't know that what you said is a fact or not. 
 I say I don't know whether that is a fact or not, and you don't, either. 
 I have no comment to make on it. 
 General Vaughan, I imagine, had some appointments in his office. Whenever he has an appointment, it is customary for him to stay. He is not afraid of you, don't worry about that.   
 No, he will not. I will appoint a successor as soon as I decide on who it is to be.  
 Of you.  
 No, I am not. That is not my business. I am not ordering the hearings. When I was in the Senate I got the facts for myself. 
 He will not.  
 Well, we have it in contemplation, and as soon as the details are worked out, and if I can arrange to go, I will make formal announcement on it. You know how they do, they come in to invite me to things of that sort, and I say I would like to come, and then they go out and say "Well, he's coming." 
 It is pending, and as soon as I can make the announcement, I will announce to you just exactly what I propose to do. I am sorry you got scooped.   
 No, I do not. 
 He is at liberty to testify. 
 Sure. I announced that a long time ago.  
 The communiqu which was released by the President of the Philippines and myself covers the conversation. It has been made a public document, and you have it, I think.  
 Not the slightest.  
 That is the Congress's business. I hope they will do that. I rather think they will.  
 I haven't discussed the matter with General Vandenberg, so I can't comment. 
 Senator Vandenberg. I can't comment. There is a General Vandenberg, too.   
 I can't comment on them.  
 I have not. I haven't talked to Senator Hoey about the hearing at all, because I don't want in any way to influence Senator Hoey's judgment. I want him to get the facts and satisfy himself. 3   3 See note in Item 161 .  
 I can't comment on that at the present time.  
 I don't know anything about it. I don't know anything about it. 
 That must have been one of the displaced persons that came in.  
 Say that again? 
 The policy on China is the same policy that it has always been. We have never been favorable to the Communists.  
 The Budget now is working on a short budget which shows just exactly what the situation is. I can't get that out until the appropriation bill is passed. I was informed yesterday by Senator Hayden that--I think he has been in the Senate almost as long as I can remember--that never in his whole legislative, historical life had there been such a tangle up of appropriations as now exists, brought about by the Republican filibusters on every bill and every committee.  
 Yes-- 
 --Mon comes in to see me. Whenever he comes to see me, I am always glad to see him.  
 No, I have not. The military budget for next year has not been made up, and it isn't ready for discussion. When I am ready to discuss it, I will tell you all about it. 
 Oh yes, you always hear all sorts of reports before the budget comes out.  
 I am not in a position to say anything about the government of China. The white paper covers everything that I can say on China. Now read it, if you haven't already done it. 
 I certainly do not.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
