 Be seated, please.   I have a statement here that I want to read to you. Mr. Ross tells me that you have asked him several questions about Chinese Communist intervention in Korea. 1  I thought I would set it out here so that you would understand it. I hope you can understand it. And copies, of course, will be available for you when the conference is over.  1 On November 3, 1950, Chinese Communist armies began to move into North Korea from Manchuria. See also Item 295 .   "The Security Council has before it a resolution concerning the grave situation caused by the Chinese Communist intervention in Korea. This resolution, introduced by the representatives of Cuba, Ecuador, France, Norway, the United Kingdom, and the United States, reaffirms that it is the policy of the United Nations to hold the Chinese frontier inviolate, to protect fully legitimate Korean and Chinese interests in the frontier zone, and to withdraw the United Nations forces from Korea as soon as stability has been restored and a unified, independent, and democratic government established throughout Korea.  "This resolution further calls upon all states and authorities to withdraw immediately from Korea all individuals or units which are assisting the North Korean forces. I am sure that all members of the Security Council genuinely interested in restoring peace in the Far East will not only support this resolution but also use their influence to obtain compliance with it.  "The United Nations forces now are being attacked from the safety of a privileged sanctuary. Planes operating from bases in China cross over into Korea to attack United Nations ground and air forces, and then flee back across the border. The Chinese Communist and North Korean Communist forces are being reinforced, supplied, and equipped from bases behind the safety of the Sino-Korean border.  "The pretext which the Chinese Communists advance for taking offensive action against United Nations forces in Korea from behind the protection afforded by the Sino-Korean border is their professed belief that these forces intend to carry hostilities across the frontier into Chinese territory.  "The resolutions and every other action taken by the United Nations demonstrates beyond any doubt that no such intention has ever been entertained. On the contrary, it has been repeatedly stated that it is the intention of the United Nations to localize the conflict and to withdraw its forces from Korea as soon as the situation permits. Speaking for the United States Government and people, I can give assurance that we support and are acting within the limits of United Nations policy in Korea, and that we have never at any time entertained any intention to carry hostilities into China. So far as the United States is concerned, I wish to state unequivocally that because of our deep devotion to the cause of world peace and our long-standing friendship for the people of China we will take every honorable step to prevent any extension of the hostilities in the Far East. If the Chinese Communist authorities or people believe otherwise, it can only be because they are being deceived by those whose advantage it is to prolong and extend hostilities in the Far East against the interests of all Far Eastern people.  "Let it be understood, however, that the desire for peace, in order to be effective, must be shared by all concerned. If the Chinese Communists share the desire of the United Nations for peace and security in the Far East, they will not take upon themselves the responsibility for obstructing the objectives of the United Nations in Korea."  That will be available for you in mimeographed form when you go out. \. I have no comment on it. I saw that admission, but I do not want to comment on it now. \. Well, you can draw your own conclusions from that.  \. That's right. \. The position on the Spanish loan has never changed. I have said here time and again that whenever Spain made the proper show to the Export-Import Bank, I supposed that the loan would be made. That doesn't have anything to do with appointing an ambassador to Spain. \. I feel rather reluctant about appointing an ambassador to Spain. I could be convinced that it is necessary, but I am not in that frame of mind now.  \. About what? \. Oh, I didn't know about it. That is news to me. I am very sorry to hear it. Carter was one of the ablest fellows around town, and one of the greatest assets that the District had. I didn't know about it.  \. The statement speaks for itself. You read it carefully, and I think you will find out just exactly what it means.  \. I have always gotten along with the Southern bloc in the Senate. It's never been I that has never been able to get along.   \. I had Mr. Dulles in with Mr. Acheson for a report on the progress that he has made in the discussions for the Japanese peace treaty. He reported to me that he had been in conference with all the nations interested, that the matter had now been referred to the various governments, and that in 2 or 3 weeks he expected to have further conversations on the same subject, as to how the governments felt on our--the proposals. Not our proposals, but the proposals that had been made for the Japanese treaty.  2 John Foster Dulles, Consultant to the Secretary of State.  \. . I have been waiting for that one. \. Yes, indeed. And, like all the rest of the pollsters and predictors, it did not come out exactly as I thought it would. But I am used to that. And you want to bear in mind that this is an off year election and it is the smallest loss for the party in power since 1916, with the exception of 1934, so I don't think there is anything to be very blue about. At least, I'm not blue. \. No, I'm not. Mr. Taft won legitimately by a big majority, and he had a perfect right to do that. I never went outside of my State to do any fighting. I fought for the Senator in my State, and I got him. 4    3 Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio.  4 Thomas C. Hennings, Jr., Senator-elect from Missouri.  \. I am not ready to comment on that subject.  5 Paul Fitzpatrick, Chairman, New York Democratic State Committee. \. He was in to report to me the situation in New York, and explained to me how it came about; and I was glad to hear about it.  \. Smallest loss since 1916, except 1934--that's right--the Democrats gained 7 seats.  \. Mr. Acheson is going to remain Secretary of State, and you might just as well quit speculating about it. He is going to be Secretary of State, period.  \. No, I do not. Most of these results were due to local conditions. I would like to analyze every one of them for you, but it would take a little too much time.  \. No. That is a matter for the Senate itself to decide.  \. No, it has not. Somebody over here wanted to  \. Yes, entirely. I am very happy that the Senator was elected, 6  and that we only came out with a net loss of one Congressman.  6  Senator Herbert H. Lehman of New York. \. Well now, I will let you do that.  \. I could--I could--I can analyze it for you. \. Any State can elect anybody they want to the Senate. And I have known Senator Taft ever since he has been in the Senate, and he and I never had any personal falling out of any kind. We just don't agree on public policy, and that is the way a democracy ought to run.  \. No, I am not. The reason for that is that I was making a survey of the situation, and it was not intended for publication. It leaked, unfortunately, and you gentlemen began to speculate about this, that, and the other thing. The objective was to find out just what was necessary to be done, and whether it could be done completely in a short session.  The principal thing that we had to consider was appropriations and a tax bill, and the consummation of the Hawaii and Alaska statehood, and rent control. I found that the appropriations could not be in shape to present to the Congress before the 27th, due to conditions over which nobody had any control, and that the tax matter has already been presented to the Ways and Means Committee of the House, and they are working on it. Therefore, there wasn't any use in calling the Congress back sooner, because the House has no business to transact.  All these matters I have referred to, except the appropriations and the tax bill, are in the Senate. \. Military--deficiency appropriations to meet the Korean conflict.  \. Most certainly. I will continue to press for it as long as I am President. I have been pressing for it since the 6th day of September 1945. 7   7 See 1945 volume, this series, Item 128.  \. I am informed by General MacArthur that they are, and that is just-well, I won't say what it is--but if General MacArthur says they have plenty of clothing, that is all the authority that I need to go on.  \. Mr. Taft has got a right to his own opinion. I just don't agree with him.  \. No. That is the business of the Export-Import Bank, and if it is a good loan it's all right; and I judge it is, or they wouldn't have made it.  \. No. It has been presented to the Congress in words of one syllable time and again. It will be presented to the January session of the new Congress. \. This Congress will be informed on various subjects by letter or otherwise on things that are to be done. I have already written a letter on the tax bill. I shall write a letter on the appropriations. I shall ask them to finish up with the Hawaiian and Alaskan statehood bills. I shall ask them to extend the rent control, and then whatever else is necessary will be presented to them in that form. \. I hope to get it all. \. I expect to get it all done, if you want to put it that way. I wouldn't be trying to get it if I didn't expect to get it. I hope to get everything I ask for.  \. I know nothing about it. That is the first I've heard of it.  \. It is already before the Congress. That is a matter that is already before the Congress, and I don't know whether it is necessary to reiterate it or not. If they think it is necessary, I will. \. That's right--that's right.  8 See Item 279. \. I can't tell you until they come before me. \. Yes. \. I don't know anything about it, and I have got no comment on it. Whenever anybody's toes are tread on, you can always hear them yell for these restrictions to be put on the other fellow, not on themselves.  9  Philip Murray, president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations, and William Green, president of the American Federation of Labor.  \. I can't tell you that. I have never said they are not necessary. The survey is a continuing one, and when the time comes for price and wage controls, they will be put on. I don't think the time is here right now.  \. Just as soon as I can find a man with the guts to take the job, I will announce him to you. 10 Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are entirely welcome.  10  On December 6, 1950, Michael V. DiSalle was confirmed by the Senate as Director of Price Stabilization. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fortyfifth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, November 16, 1950. 
