THE PRESIDENT, I have one short announcement to make to you, because I know you will ask some questions about it if I don't announce it.   : "In the recent Economic Report to Congress,  1  I made the following statement."   1  See Item 151.  This will be available for you in mimeographed form when you go out.   "'There are a number of Federal programs of direct action or assistance to localities which can be timed and channeled so as to concentrate upon areas where unemployment is heavy, without sacrifice of general national objectives. This principle of wise selectivity is particularly applicable to the procurement and construction activities--'" and so forth.  And I have asked the Assistant to the President, Dr. Steelman, to assume responsibility for directing these activities. I should appreciate the people to whom this goes--all members of the Cabinet, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Director of the Bureau of the Budget, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, the Administrator for Economic Cooperation, Administrator for General Services, the Administrator, Housing and Home Finance, the Chairman of the United States Maritime Commission--and others--and Dr. Steelman is going to coordinate their activities.  The Secretary of Commerce is making a special investigation now of the various 'places where there is local unemployment, and this will be coordinated with these boards and bureaus, and we are going to see if we can get some direct action on the subject. 
 That remains to be seen. We are making the investigation now, and when the Secretary of Commerce makes his report, then they all will be coordinated. If New England is one of them, why it will be-- 
 Just the ordinary appropriations. 
 That's correct. 
 That's correct. 
 No. This is to ask the regular procurement officers of the Government where they can make purchases, and in localities like this, to do just that. That's what it means. 
 No. No, it doesn't. Has no effect on the budget whatever.  
 They have got a perfect right to make that demand, but I have no comment on anything that that gang would want to do. 
 We took care of them in the last election. 
 That gang.  
 Senator Taft is entitled to his opinion, and I have no comment on his opinion. 
 I have no opinion to express, at the present time.  
 I would not.   2  On May 26, 1949, Senator Kenneth S. Wherry of Nebraska introduced a bill "to reduce Government expenditures for the fiscal year 1950, balance the budget, avert an increase in taxes or rise in the national debt, and maintain a sound national fiscal policy as a basis for the security and economic well-being of the United States."  
 What's that? 
 No, no. You have everything on steel that I can comment on, following those telegrams that were sent out last night.  3    3  See Item 153. 
 I will attend to that tomorrow. 
 I know. I am still in favor of it. I am still in favor of it. 
 I cannot. I notice you asked that same question of the Secretary of State, and if he can't answer it, of course, I can't.  
 Sure. 
 No, there isn't. I am satisfied, though, if they agree to the truce, that it will not be broken.  
 It isn't true. That is one out of the whole cloth. No such request has ever been made to me, and I don't interfere in local State affairs, anyway.  
 We did not discuss that subject. 
 Yes, I did. He brought it up. 
 Yes. 
 It was not. 
 I did not. 
 He asked himself here, and I was glad to see him. He said he would like to come down and talk to me about New York politics, and that is what he did. 
 Well, he was in here about 20 minutes. It was a very pleasant meeting with the mayor of the greatest city in the United States. I see all the mayors when they want to come in to see me, and discuss any subject they want to discuss. 
 Yes, we discussed ex-Governor Lehman. The mayor did. I am not in New York politics.  
 The less harmony in the Republican Party the better suited I am.    5  On July 18, 1949, Representative Hugh D. Scott, Jr., of Pennsylvania announced that he would resign from his position as chairman of the Republican National Committee. The resignation became effective on August 4.  
 I certainly do not, and I didn't know he was lobbying against it.   6  Richard R. Nacy, banking executive and a member of the Missouri State Democratic Committee from the Second District. 
 It didn't have any effect on them, I can assure you of that-- 
--I can assure you of that.  
 I will meet that situation when it confronts me.   7  On July 15, 1949, the President appointed a three-member fact-finding board to review the steel dispute and report back to him within 45 days from July 16. The deadline was later extended to September 10 by the President's letter of August 26 to the chairman of the board, Carroll Daugherty. The board was composed of Mr. Daugherty of Evanston, Ill., David L. Cole of Paterson, N.J., and Judge Samuel I. Rosenman of New York City. The board's report, submitted to the President on September 10, 1949, is entitled "Report to the President of the United States on the Labor Dispute in the Basic Steel Industry" . 
 No, I have not. 
 No. I have no answers from them, as yet. They have to deliberate on it a little while. 
 No, I don't think I ought to comment on it until I find out whether my effort to prevent a work stoppage works.  
 I don't know that any group is going to meet me at 5 o'clock this afternoon. If they are, I haven't heard about it. 
 I am having a conference this evening at the Blair House with a bunch of people that I have called in  8  but there is nothing to comment on.   8  According to newspaper reports on the following day, the information that a meeting was to be held sometime during the evening of the 14th at the Blair House became known that afternoon. The meeting dealt with the question of British and Canadian participation in the atomic energy program. See also Items 161 and 166. 
 It might be.   
 Of course it should be. 
 Without reservations.  
 That matter will have to be met when the situation develops. An emergency would not develop under the Taft-Hartley Act in the case of a total steel strike for some time. I was merely trying to avoid a work stoppage and see if we couldn't negotiate an agreement. It has been customary for Presidents in times past, and for the Secretaries of Labor in times past, and for the Conciliation Commissions, to appoint these fact finding boards. It is nothing new. 
 Well, I think we acted in the first coal strike after 5 weeks. The emergency did not develop for 5 weeks, until the coal was all used up, if I remember correctly. 
 What were the others? I don't remember the others, except the railroad strike, and when there is a strike in the railroads, it is an emergency the next day, you all know that. 
 Well, it took sometime for the emergency to develop, and when the emergency comes about and it is the belief of the President that there is a national emergency, he usually declares it under the law. That's the rule I have been following. I don't care what his point was.  
 I have no comment on that, Miss May.  9    9  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  
 I have no comment on that.  
 We have been working on it--trying to get it ready. 
 I have not anything of the kind in contemplation at this moment. 
 It is the same sort of reorganization plan as any other reorganization plan would be, worked in exactly the same way. It will be in the form of an Executive order and will be sent to the Congress; and if it stays in for 60 days and is not voted down, it will be the law. 
 Yes, that's right. 
 I don't think that's final-- 
--and I can't do anything about it. 
 I am doing the best I can to see that it doesn't become final.  
 I haven't seen it, and I will have to have it analyzed by the Attorney General and by the interested departments before I can make comment on it.  11    11  On July 20, 1949, the President signed H.R. 858, "A bill to clarify the overtime compensation provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended" .  
 I think that Judge Kaufman is a good judge. I appointed him to the bench, and I think he has acted all right. I don't think it's a very good idea to discredit the courts; and my authority for that statement is Mr. Bob Patterson, who was my Secretary of War.  
 No. No, I can't comment on that.  
 I would not. Period. 
 Fifty million for Franco. 
 I will attend to that when it comes before me. I can't veto a bill by voice vote.  12     12  On October 6, 1949, the President signed the Foreign Aid Appropriation Act of 1950 . 
 Because we are not on friendly relations with Spain at the present time, and there is a certain way in which that situation can be developed. If the other European countries vote to take Spain in, and they can convince us that Spain is to come in, that's a different matter. The matter has been put up to that European organization by Portugal sometime ago, and no action has ever been taken on it.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and eighty-ninth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, July 14, 1949. 
