[The Official Reporter states that the President attempted a surprise visit to the press room but that everyone seemed to know he would come.]   What's that, Joe?  Joseph A. Fox, Washington Star: This is on the record?   Yes.   We'll have to wait a few minutes, I guess, to see that everybody is protected.    Is Bob up? 1     How are you all this morning?  Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President: This reminds me of the time I held up the President's plane in the jungles.   At 3 o'clock in the morning.  Mr. Ross: Tropical rainstorm.   Can't we suspend the picture-taking while the conference is going on and then you can take a few later. Don't let's have the picture now while it is going on.   Take them afterwards. I can't see the expressions on the fellows' faces here when you do that.   Very pleasant--very pleasant vacation. A very successful one.   Every point of view.   Got a lot of work done-good deal of rest--plenty of sunshine--very satisfactory all around.   I agree, but I don't see how it can be done.    I didn't see the Secretary's speech, and I am not familiar with it, therefore I have no comment to make on it.    That is a matter that is under consideration by the Treasury Committee and by the experts on the Ways and Means Committee of the House. No conclusion has yet been reached on it. It will be covered in the Budget Message.   A bunch of experts--the fellows in the Treasury Department that work on taxes. They have been there all the time.   The Committee on Ways and Means that has been there always--they work in complete harmony.   It will be in the Budget Message.    I will have to cover that in the Budget Message.   It has always been my aim to try and balance the budget. The 80th Congress unbalanced the budget, and nobody else in the world is to blame, for they knew exactly what they were doing when they did it. I made it very plain to them in three veto messages.   That is a matter that is under study and I will answer that in the Budget Message.   I will answer that in the Budget Message.     That matter is under consideration.   No definite decision as yet.    Some legislation has been introduced on point 4, and there will be some further study and recommendations on that basis that will be mentioned also in the State of the Union Message.   I think so--I think that was the figure. I can't remember exactly, but I think that was the figure.    No.    No, I can't comment on that yet. I haven't made up my mind on what I am going to do about it. I will let you know just as quickly as I am ready.    No, I am not ready to act on it now. It is on my desk, and it has been on my desk for some time, and there never has been but one list and I have got it, and I have had it all the time.   That was never sent back. The list came in its controversial form directly from the Navy, and I knew nothing about the controversy until I got the list, and the list will remain on my desk until I have made up my mind.   No, none at all.   None sent back.   No. There have been no names knocked off, and no substitutes, and when I make up my mind what I am going to do about it, I will make the decision and you will know all about it.   I can't answer that.   I haven't studied the thing at all.   No, I can't.     The figures have not been reached.   We are working on it now. It hasn't been completely totaled up.   I can't answer that because it hasn't been completely totaled. I think there are some still pending of a minor character.   No, I have not. You can't run a budget that way. A budget has to be gotten out in the interest of the Nation's whole.    I will tell you all about that in the State of the Union Message, which is just about ready.    No. I will make an announcement on that a little later.    Ever since I have been in the Congress, since 1935.   They are studying the tax situation all the time. That is the Ways and Means Committee of the House.   I have been telling you right straight from the shoulder.    I haven't decided on one yet.  Mr. Ross: These questions all have a very familiar ring, Mr. President.    No announcements.    No, I did not.    Not that I know of.   Well, you are still for Joe Fox?    I understand a fellow doesn't have to know anything about law to have that job. How about that, Joe?  Mr. Fox: I hope you will put that off the record, that's all I have to say!   We are just discussing Joe now.    No, I can't.   That will be covered in the State of the Union Message.   Nothing new.    It hasn't come to me yet.   I suppose they will make recommendations on it, but it hasn't reached me yet.    Well, my suggestion to you about that is to talk to Mr. Foley. He is the authority on that, and he will cover it for you completely and thoroughly. I think that statement was made to you once before.  Q. Yes, sir.  Q. Just like that! Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
