 Please be seated.   I have no special announcements to make this morning, except that I would like to tell you that I have a visitor today who is my Lieutenant Governor of Missouri, Governor Jim Blair  1  --a fine-looking fellow, too.  I wouldn't advise you to get into any trouble with him, either.   1  James T. Blair, Jr., Lieutenant Governor of Missouri. \. Well, it has been customary for me to be a delegate from Missouri, but I don't know whether I will be this year or not. Anyway, I shall not attend the convention until after the candidate for president is elected--if I attend at all. I told you once before, I think it was at the editors press conference, that I didn't think it would be the proper thing for me to go to the convention, and make it appear that I was trying to dominate it--which I don't want to do. \. If I go at all, it will be after the balloting. \. No. I haven't made any definite plans on the subject at all, except that I know I am not going to the convention until after the President and Vice President have been nominated. \. Oh, I am generally a delegate from Missouri--have been ever since I went to the United States Senate. I am usually always a delegate. \. That comes naturally with the office.  \. Why certainly I would. I would feel that it was a high honor if they did it. \. How's that? \. No. The alternate would have to do my job. \. I think I was. I don't remember for sure, but I think I was. You would have to look it up, I can't remember. \. No, I haven't. I would have to have a little more information on the subject. I know what kind of a platform I would vote for, but I have not yet decided on which candidate I would vote for. I think the Vice President said the other day he was sort of like Josh Billings, he was going to be nice to all of them, for you never could tell what might happen. Josh, you know, put out advice to his friends that it was always well to be nice to your poor relations, because they might suddenly become rich some day, and it would be hard to explain?  \. Yes, to make a Democratic speech--start off a whistlestop program.  \. I can't comment on that for the matter is under negotiation, and it wouldn't be well for me to comment on it now.  \. I wrote to the--I think Congressman Jones,  2  who sent me the first invitation, and told him I didn't think it would be possible for me to get there. Then Senator Hill came in and told me that he thought I certainly ought to go, and I have the matter under consideration. I doubt very much whether I will be able to get there.   2  Representative Robert E. Jones, Jr., of Alabama.  \. That's right. I am going to work for the nominee just as hard as I would work for myself. \. I doubt that. I don't think I can get to as many places because I started in June that time. \. I am going to do whatever the national Democratic chairman wants me to do. I am that kind of a Democrat. \. Wall, I have never seen the time when the committee did have enough money. There were times in 1948 when we couldn't get the train out of the station-but we went on.   \. I was talking to one of your good citizens awhile ago on that thing. I didn't know about it until today. And I have received no word from the Governor or anybody else in control out there, as to whether there is a disaster situation or not, so I can't take any action until I know more about the facts. I will treat Utah and the flood situation just as we would treat Missouri.  \. I don't know. I don't know. The best way to find out about that would be to ask some Missourian about it.  \. I don't know anything about it. It's nice to talk about, though. \. I didn't know it had ever been done. That's news to me.  \. The Democratic nominee for President will be satisfactory to me. I will abide by the actions of the convention. \. I think very highly of Mr. Harriman. I think he is perfectly capable of making a good President, and if he is nominated I will go all-out for him.   3  W. Averell Harriman, Director for Mutual Security. \. Same thing exactly. I think very highly of Senator Russell, and always have. I made that statement here three times. This just reiterates it. I can say the same thing for all the candidates that are in the field.  \. I don't know anything about it. I haven't looked into it. This is all news to me. I didn't read about it at all. I never saw anything about it in the paper. And I know nothing about the ruling of the Internal Revenue, so I can't give you an answer.  \. This country is trying to assist the United Nations in preventing aggression, just as it did in Greece and Turkey, and as it did in Berlin, and in several other instances. \. I don't think I ought to make any direct comment on the arguments that are made to the Supreme Court until we have heard from the Court; and then I will give you plenty of comment.  \. The negotiations are still going on.    4   See Item 121. \. No, I can't comment on the situation at the present time. \. Whenever I can comment on it, I will give you the facts as I know them.  What is it, Smitty?  5    5   Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations.  \. That is in the hands of the military, and they are handling it, and I have no comment to make on it.   6  The Communist prisoners of war on Koje Island had captured the camp commander, Brig. Gen. Francis T. Dodd, and had held him captive for 78 hours, releasing him on May 10. On May 15, Brig. Gen. Haydon L. Boatner was appointed to succeed Brig. Gen. Charles F. Colson, who had taken over the command after General Dodd was captured and had made concessions to the prisoners in order to obtain General Dodd's release.  \. No, I didn't read it. I have no comment on it. I didn't even read it.   7  On May 14 Bernard M. Baruch spoke on economic policy at the Industrial College of the Armed forces.  \. He came to the office to pay his respects to the President of the United States, as all these men do when they are traveling in the country. Then I went to lunch with him, and had a very pleasant visit with him--discussed the Austrian situation from one end to the other. I have no comment to make on the conversation, however.   8   Leopold Figl.  \. I have no ambitions at the present time, politically or otherwise. As I told you, I am going to spend some time doing as I please, to see how it feels. t don't know how long that will last.  \. No, I can't. They will have to be outlined by the Democratic committee, and as I say, I shall follow the directions of the chairman and the executive committee of the Democratic committee after the nominations are over. I will do everything I can to help elect the ticket. \. I don't understand what you mean? \. Well, I think that the Democratic platform will be in line with the Democratic platform of 1932, 1936, 1940, 1944, 1948. I don't think there will be any difficulty about the Democrats writing a platform if the people will vote for it. They always have.   \. Not a word of truth in that, and he knows it. That's just a political statement.    9  Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York.  \. There have been instances where the President has made speeches for the nominee.  I think President Wilson made a speech for Governor Cox from his sickbed, when the Governor was nominated in 1920. And I think you can go back and find several instances where that has taken place. I think you will find that President Hayes helped campaign for President Garfield. And it is a remarkable story about the nomination of Garfield. If you have got time to listen to it, I will tell it to you. \. James G. Blaine--the Plumed Knight--was the favorite. He went to the convention and had 297 votes, I think. And Roscoe Conkling who didn't like Blaine, persuaded General Grant to let Conkling nominate him for President. Grant got 303 ballots on the first ballot, I think, and that went on for some time. And during the convention James Garfield nominated some gentleman--I don't remember who it was he nominated, but he made the most wonderful speech that was made at that convention. And I am informed that after several ballots, President Hayes called the chairman of the convention and asked him why they didn't nominate Garfield, that he had made the best speech that had been made there. He wasn't even a candidate.  Now, that is a remarkable performance. Which goes to show that a President has a little influence with his party convention, if he wants to use it.  \. You don't have to be there. President Hayes wasn't there. \. Because President Hayes said it was. He said it was the best speech that was made at the convention. That's all I know about it. Just what I read. \. No, I haven't read the speech, but I am telling you what happened. \. Oh yes, certainly he had. Oh yes, certainly he had. \. Was that who it was? I had forgotten who it was he nominated. \. You remember William Jennings Bryan in 1896--the real dark horse. We had a candidate from Missouri we thought we were going to get nominated-"Silver Dick" Bland,  10   if you remember, and he didn't even get a handful of ballots on the first vote. Bryan just took the convention by storm by making one speech. I don't think I could do that. I wouldn't even try to do that. But then, I am not going to take any chances, because I don't want to be nominated.    10  Richard Parks Bland, Representative from Missouri from 1873 to 1895 and from 1897 to 1899. \. Yes, indeed. That's my program, and it's a fair deal for everybody. Every section of the economy has had a fair deal since I have been President.  Reporter: We have run out of gas, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. All right--that suits me all right. Note: President Truman's three hundred and fourth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 15, 1952. 
