  It looks like we'll have to get a bigger hall.   I have no particular announcements to make, but I will try to answer questions so far as I can.   Mr. President, two allied questions. First, is the excise tax being continued?  THE PEESIDENT. Mr. Snyder made a statement on the tax situation this morning, which I approved. I would suggest that you read the statement. I'll read it to you, it's short. 1    1 Secretary Snyder appeared before the Senate Finance Committee on July 13 and requested that excise taxes be retained. Citing the Korean situation he added that their discontinuance "would disorganize the taxing machinery of the Government and result temporarily in losses of needed revenues."   All right.   Same answer as before.    He wanted to know if there were any plans about industrial mobilization. All the things that relate to the emergency are under consideration, and at the proper time the necessary steps will be taken if they are necessary. I want to say directly that they are under consideration.    Since the figures have not been assembled and presented to the President of the United States, we can't give any definite figure.   Sure, fire away.   It is under consideration.    Yes, it is still a police action.   We will have to meet the situations as they develop. I can't answer that question.    It was discussed when the President of Chile was here. It is a matter between Chile and Bolivia. Doesn't require the approval of the President of the United States.    I like it very much.    The first time I heard about it was the release that I saw on the wire. I know nothing about it. I have no such intention. That would be the best answer, I think.   Did you have a question?    All those things are under consideration, and I can't make any statements on them at the present time. You will be kept informed of all the procedures as they come about.    That is under consideration, too. No decision has been reached.   No. I am not in charge of the military in Korea, and the report is made every day by General MacArthur, and he is the one to evaluate the situation. I rely on his evaluation.   I feel the same way. My position has not changed on that at all.   What do you mean by that?   Sure.   We are going to--   --let me tell you something--   He wanted to know what assurance we could give the American people that we aren't getting the tar licked out of us. It has never happened to us. It won't happen this time.   We will be able to retain a foothold in Korea as far north as the 38th parallel.   I will make that decision when it becomes necessary to do it.   No.   There is one thing I would like very much to impress on you, if you will bear with me about a minute.  There is no prospect of any food shortage in this country at any time. We have in prospect one of the largest corn crops we have ever had and had a billion bushels carried over. We have a normal cotton crop in prospect, and there are 3 million bales in storage in the hands of the Commodity Credit Corporation. We expect as large a wheat crop as we had last year and anticipate as large a one next year, and there are some 700 million bushels of wheat in the carryover. So there is nothing to worry about, so far as food and things of that sort are concerned. I wish you would make that perfectly plain to your subscribers.   I do. The statement I just made you would show that that is true. I discussed the matter with Secretary Brannan this morning, too.   I beg your pardon?   I think it is very foolish to start anything of that kind now. There is no necessity for it whatever, as I am trying to make perfectly plain to you.   I can't comment on any of those things, because I am only talking of the things that I know definitely about.    I haven't had any such report, but I am sure that General Marshall will see that that is done. 2  Yes, both.   I am considering everything in connection with this situation which I think will be helpful in keeping the American people and the Congress informed on what goes on.   That question was answered by Secretary Acheson yesterday. if you will read his report at the press conference, you will get your answer. 3    3 In a statement, released on July 12, Secretary Acheson said, "Many states have indicated a desire to assist but do not know what types of assistance within their capabilities would be useful. Advantage will be taken of these offers as soon as channels are set up." For the full text of Acheson's statement, see the Department of State Bulletin .    I have no tax plans. The statement of the Secretary of Agriculture covered all that I can say about the matter at this time.   I mean Secretary of the Treasury, yes. I was thinking about Brannan.    All those things are under consideration. If it is necessary, announcements will be made in plenty of time so that you will all know about it.    Not at all.    That is a matter on which I can't comment at this time.  You're welcome.
