THE PRESIDENT . I think you fellows have had enough now. Get out of here, and let me go to work!    I have these two statements which-copies will be handed to you. One of them is on the Reorganization Act that was turned down by the House.   "I am sorry to hear that the House has not seen fit to approve the proposed Reorganization Act of 1951. If enacted, the bill would have provided a more expeditious means of making organizational changes needed for the best administration of the defense program. The bill had the full support of the Citizens' Committee for the Hoover Report and had been passed by the Senate. While the defeat of the bill eliminates a sound and desirable method for enabling the President to proceed with the cooperation of the Congress in obtaining organizational changes, I shall nevertheless continue to work for the improvement of the organization of the executive branch through the methods which remain available."  I still hope that the House will pass the Senate bill.   Then, I am establishing a National Advisory Board on Mobilization Policy, which will consist of labor, industry, agriculture, and public members. 1  The Chairman will be Mr. Wilson. 2  It will serve as an advisory board to the President.  Now I will try to answer questions, if I can.  1 Executive Order 10224, establishing the National Advisory Board on Mobilization Policy, was signed by the President on March 15, 1951 .  2 Charles E. Wilson, Director, Office of Defense Mobilization.  \. It was defense reorganization entirely. The Executive order explains itself--I mean the reorganization plan explains itself. All you have to do is read it.  \. I don't think labor walked out. I think labor is as interested in the national defense program as is any other segment of the economy of the United States. I am not worried about that part of it at all, as I have told you before. \. There isn't any doubt about it. \. I haven't asked anybody-I haven't asked for any positive statements on the subject. I am making the order. We will see what will happen. I am satisfied that it will work. I wouldn't make it if I didn't think so.  Now, anything else? \. No, no--this is the same as the old advisory board that was with the president all during the Second World War. The former Governor of North Carolina was the Chairman of that board--former Under Secretary of the Treasury--and I finally made him Ambassador to Great Britain-- \.--Max Gardner. And he died before he could get to London. \. Yes. \. Yes. It was an advisory board to the President--met once or twice a month. I used to meet with them at least once a month to discuss everything under the sun, just as I do with you gentlemen-and ladies.  What's on your mind?  \. Go ahead and ask it. \. The administration is trying to meet the situation in the best manner possible, and we shall continue to try to do just that. That is all the answer I have.  3 Michael V. DiSalle, Director of Price Stabilization.  4 Eric Johnston, Administrator, Economic Stabilization Agency.  \. I commented on that in 1948. The comment is just the same--the comment is just the same.   5 Joseph Short, Secretary to the President. \. Wall, I would advise you to go and study history. \. Neither have I. So we are even with you. Your home offices must have them.   \. No comment.  6 Mrs. E. Merl Young was a secretarial assistant in the office of the personal secretary to the President. \. No comment. Is that what you came down here to ask me?  \. That's wonderful--I appreciate that very much.   \. Well, the Reorganization Act itself is still in effect, but this was a special program devoted entirely to defense, in an effort to reduce the expense of the defense program.  \. I can't answer that question.  \. I feel all right.  I always feel all right. \. I am exactly the same weight I was when I came down here. It is awfully hard to lose down here.  \. It varies between 175 and 178.  Mr. Short : You are not going to make a liar out of me?   THE PRESIDENT. No, Joe, you told the truth. \. I said 175 to 178. I think I weighed 176 this morning. \. That's right. I try to tell Joe every day what I weigh, and what I have for breakfast, which hand I wipe my mouth with, so that you fellows will be right up to date on everything that goes on.   \. No comment. I am glad the House has passed the Reorganization Plan. 7   7 For the President's message to Congress transmitting Reorganization Plan 1, relating to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, see Item 39. On March 14, H. Res. 142, opposing the plan, failed of passage.  \. I can't tell you what the situation will be at that time. I would like very much to come. I don't know whether I will be able to.  \. That is a tactical matter for the field commander. A commander in chief 7,000 miles away does not interfere with field operations. We are working to free the Republic of Korea and set it up as the United Nations wants it. That doesn't have anything to do with the 38th parallel.  \. Wall, I expressed my opinion on polls, and the same on that--it's the same on that.  8 Senator Paul H. Douglas, Democrat, of Illinois. \. No comment, Bert. 9  No comment. You can still speculate and draw your own conclusions. You wouldn't have any fun if you didn't have something like that to talk about.   9 Bert Andrews of the New York Herald Tribune. \. Well, I hope you will continue to do just that. You won't have any quarrel with me if you do.  \. Hi, Bob.  10   10 Robert G. Nixon of International News Service. \. Bob, do you think that the Constitution can be amended by a Senate and House resolution? \. All right. \. I don't either. \. Oh, no. I don't have anything to do with the actions of the Congress. They are a free, elective body. They are elected to carry out all the legislative provisions of the Constitution of the United States. I am elected to carry out the Executive powers in that same Constitution, and we usually get along all right in the end. \. We are going to do whatever is necessary to meet the present emergency under the Constitution of the United States. That is what I am sworn to uphold and defend, and I propose to do just that. \. You want to get me into a discussion of a legislative matter which is not before me, and I don't intend to do that. \. I don't know that I have any special spokesman. There are lots of Democrats and Republicans down there who are doing everything they can to support the foreign policy of the United States. \. To support it. A number of Democratic and Republican Senators and Congressmen who are doing everything they possibly can to support the foreign policy of the United States. \. It is a bipartisan foreign policy. \. Support the bipartisan foreign policy of the United States. \. I won't go into that.  \. I think you will find as far back as 1945 specific proposals on the whole subject. Our plan and program has been before the United Nations ever since the Second World War ended, and there has not been any change in those plans and proposals.  11  Item 54. \. The disarmament program and the control of atomic energy and everything else has been thoroughly and completely covered. Our stand has never been any different--it isn't any different now from what it was then. \. Time and again. Time and again.  \. No comment.  12  Donald S. Dawson, Administrative Assistant to the President, formerly personnel director of the RFC. \. No, he hasn't. That doesn't mean that he won't be coming if he wants to. All the rest of us are here. \. That's all right--I haven't been in touch with him.  \. Now, Tony, 13  that is a question that we will leave up in the air so that Bert and these other fellows can have something to speculate on for the rest of the year.   13 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  Bert Andrews: I only write facts.  THE PRESIDENT. That's right--and he can speculate, too.  I have no comment on that question.  \. Shoot. \. Because it was dirty and needed washing.  \. That is a very quiet grey and white shirt. It didn't show up very well in the pictures, but as I said, it's in the laundry now, that's the only reason I don't have it on.  \. I have no plans for next year.  \. No, I think those letters speak for themselves. Mr. McCabe has been trying to quit for a years. We didn't want him to quit while this controversy was on between the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board.  14 On March 15, the White House made public the President's letter accepting the resignation of Thomas B. McCabe as Chairman, Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System, effective March 31. The release also included Mr. McCabe's letter of resignation, dated March 9, and a second letter to the President from Mr. McCabe on March 14 in which he recommended William McChesney Martin, Jr., Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, as his successor.  \. I haven't seen that statement. It has not reached me officially, so I can't comment on it. \. I can't answer the question. \. He wanted to know if there was any outlook for peace in Korea, and I told him I couldn't answer the question. \. I wish I could, too. I would if I could.  \. Oh, yes--always like it. Very pleasant place to be, except that I had to wear an overcoat yesterday. \. It has been one of the most pleasant visits we have had down here. We had one bad day. What was that, Tony?  \. No comment.  15 senator William F. Knowland, Republican, of California. \. He wanted to know if I had any comment on Senator Knowland's statement that I ought to come home and dean house. My house is always clean.  \. That is not true. Pointblank. Categorically. It is just not true. \. I was only commenting on that letter--on the congressional letters which I have read. 16 I have not gone to the bottom of them. I have made no FBI investigation or anything of that kind. But the letters I have read were just simply requests that certain loans be considered and granted. Nothing illegal in that. I never wrote any letter of that sort in my life while I was in the Senate, and I was there for 10 years.  16 See Items 33  and 49 . \. No comment. I can only refer you to my own actions under similar circumstances. \. I hope not. \. I never wrote letters to Government departments urging that they do anything. The only two Government agencies before which I ever appeared during the 10 years I was in the Senate were the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, when I was trying to get railroad securities on the open market so anybody could buy them, on bids. And I succeeded in getting that done; that was in the public interest. \. Tony is trying to find out whether my people are honorable or not-that are around me. They are.  \. Yes. I wouldn't have them if they weren't. \. Poor Tony. I can't lend you one. I left mine in the house.  \. I can't remember any. \. I can't remember. Clark Clifford worked for me. 18  \. Clark Clifford did not come to Washington until I was President of the United States.  18  Clark M. Clifford was Special Counsel to the President until his resignation January 31, 1950 . \. Yes. I didn't ask for anybody to promote him to the Army, Navy, etc., during the war. \. I didn't say so. \. That's all right.  \. Shoot. \. No, I don't think there is anything to be said.  You know, I will make this comment, though, that all a President of the United States can do is to endeavor to make the Government--the executive branch--run in the public interest. I have striven very hard to accomplish that purpose. And the administration of no President can be evaluated during his term, or within 25 or 30 years after that term. Thomas Jefferson has just now come into his own as a President. Same thing is true of Jackson, and Lincoln, and Grover Cleveland. The same thing will be true of Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt. It takes an objective survey of what has happened and what was trying to be accomplished to decide whether a President has been a success or not. And you can't decide that now or here, and neither can I. \. You are perfectly welcome to use it. I will have Jack give it to you because that is a statement of fact, as you all know, if you study history.  19  Jack Romagna, White House Official Reporter. \. Well, yes, but it wasn't anything new to me, because I had seen nearly everything that was in that book before it was published. Not the manuscript, you understand but historically speaking.  If you really want to find the man who was about the most abused man in the history of the country in the press, go down to the Library of Congress and read some of the newspaper comments on George Washington. You will find a lot of things that you didn't know about, that are not in history. \. Well, I don't think that is necessary, Bert. I don't mind those two answers before-- \. I don't mind these last two or three questions being on the transcript order, but I don't think there is any use putting the whole press conference on the record. \. I know. Tony here is having a hard time making his pencil notes. \. No, no. When Jack gets the transcript, I will discuss the matter with Joe. \. Well, whenever it is ready.  Joe Short: It won't be ready for some time.  THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am just telling you exactly what I think and what I am trying to accomplish. All I am working for is the welfare of the United States, and I think nearly every other Government employee with whom I am working is trying to do the same thing, under a severe handicap. \. Character assassination is a terrible thing. \. Oh no, the press doesn't abuse me. The press is very kind to me.  I have no quarrel with the press. Never have.  But you ought to read those things, you will--they are just as interesting as can be. You should see what was said about Washington and Jefferson, and John Quincy Adams, and Andrew Jackson. And I believe the man who got the worst treatment besides George Washington in the press was Grover Cleveland. Nobody was as roundly abused as Cleveland in his first term. \. No, I didn't say that--I didn't say that. \. Any inference you want to draw, that is your contusion, not mine.  \. That's right. \. I hope it will be remembered for its sincere effort for world peace. And if we accomplish that, if we get through this era without a third world war, I think that probably is what it will be remembered for. \. Well, I will let you argue that with Joe. \. For world peace"establishment of world peace. And I think that the establishment of world peace, and the implementation of the so-called point 4 program will be the things that will be most remembered, if they are successfully concluded. We can't tell what is going to happen, and I am not making any prophecies. \. Opening the United Nations and closing it, and also the San Francisco statement on the Asiatic policy, and the United Nations statement after that on world policy. I think that is the meat of the whole epoch of this present administration.  And that doesn't mean that I am responsible for that. That means that the whole Government--legislative, executive, and judicial--have been putting forth the same sort of an effort for world peace. You see, there have been two generations of the young men of Europe slaughtered, and it is a difficult gap to fill. I hope it won't happen again.  Bert Andrews : Mr. President, I think I will impersonate Mr. Smith, and say "Thank you very much."  THE PRESIDENT. It's nice to be with you. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fifty-seventh news conference was held on the lawn of the Little White House in Key West, Fla., at 3:30 p.m. on Thursday, March 15, 1951. 
