 I have no announcements today. I will try to answer questions, if anybody has any on his mind.  
 There is no national emergency in coal at the present minute.  
 Just as soon as we can get it ready. 
 No. It will all be contained in the message, and it will be very fairly stated. 
 Senator Taft is entitled to his own opinion. I didn't know he was a military expert, though.   2  The remarks of Senator Robert A. Taft are published in the Congressional Record .  
 Whenever the Governor of Puerto Rico is here and wants to see me, the door is always open to him, or the Governor of any other one of the Territories. I saw one this morning.  
 Hadn't heard anything about it. I will certainly have to make the appointment if there is a change.  
 The Governor of Hawaii. The Alaskan Governor was here last week, I think.  
 We had a discussion on the subject, and there will be an announcement on it some time in the near future. 3  3 Winthrop Aldrich, chairman of the board of the Chase National Bank of New York. In the spring of 1950 Mr. Aldrich, during a trip abroad, made a survey of economic conditions in a number of European countries. On July 6, 1950, he reported his findings in a meeting with President Truman.  
 Yes, I hope to. 
 I can't answer it definitely. 
 Say that again. I didn't hear it, either. 
 I haven't given any study to any budget but my own, and it's all I can do to take care of that. I haven't seen the CED budget. 4    4 The Committee for Economic Development, a private nonprofit organization, released a report on January 7, entitled "Tax Expenditure Policy for 1950," which called for a reduction in taxes and Federal spending in fiscal year 1951 .  
 I have no comment on that.  5 Representative John Kee of West Virginia. His remarks on Spain are published in the Congressional Record .  
 Very satisfactory report from the Democratic standpoint.  6 William M. Boyle, Jr., Chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
 He reported to me he thought the Democrats could win in Ohio. No personalities were gone into.  
 The House Rules Committee, of course, is running its own business. The chairman of the Rules Committee was in to see me this morning, and told me that they were going to take it up, and I was very highly appreciative that they are. 
 Well, you will have to ask the leaders in the House. I can't answer that question. 
 Well, the Senate, then.  
 I think the best way to find out is to ask the Secretary of State. I think he has a press conference each week, just like I do.  7 Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
 I think he had his press conference down at the Press Club today. 8    8  Secretary Acheson's remarks at the Press Club on January 12 were directed to an examination of U.S. policy in Asia. He did not discuss Spain . However, on January 18 Secretary Acheson reviewed U.S. policy toward Spain in a letter to Senator Tom Connally, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .  
 I think that if you will read my statement on Formosa, it is thoroughly and completely covered. 9    9  See Item 3 . 
 That settles the question, so far as I am concerned.  
 NO new plans, no. 
 No, I have no statement to make on it. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
