 I have no special announcements to make to you today. We have been making these announcements as they came along.  So questions are in order.  
 That sounds to me as if you had some preparation on that one. But I can express an opinion on those pictures. I have made two trips to see them, and I was particularly interested in Rembrandt's "Moses," and Titian's "Portrait of Himself." One I really wanted to see was the Holbein picture, "The Merchant," which is considered the finest portrait in the world; and Frans Hals has some pictures there that were very appealing to me. That is the sort of art that I like, that I can understand.  About the return of the pictures: it is my opinion that they should be returned as promptly as possible to their rightful owners, as soon as it is safe for them to be returned. They don't belong to us. They belong to the art galleries in Europe.  
 Well, I would suggest that Walter Reuther take it up with the Governor. Our Constitution hasn't a sufficient number of police powers for enforcement of local laws which are to keep the peace. That is not a proper thing that happened, either in Indiana or in Ohio, but that requires local police enforcement, over which I have no control--thank goodness.  
 The administration is not.  
 I do not want to comment on it.  
 We are enforcing the Taft-Hartley law to the letter. 
 That's all the comment I care to make.  
 To what? 
 Oh, he's around. 
 Dr. Graham is still taking care of him for me.  1  Brig. Gen. Wallace H. Graham, Physician to the President.  
 I had a very, very pleasant visit with the Prince Regent and the Prime Minister, and the usual conversation on the European recovery program and our attitude toward the recovery of Europe were the principal things talked about.  
 Well, the same thing is being done that has been under consideration all the time. We are constantly making surveys as to whether certain plants should be released or not. 
 Tony  2  reminds me that Dr. Steelman released a statement on the subject just a few minutes ago, which covers it completely.  3   2  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  3  Dr. Steelman's statement, released by the White House on April 8, announced that he had requested the War Assets Administration to withhold for a 30-day period final disposal action on all unsold industrial plants not already covered by the National Security Clause. This clause stipulated that a plant must be maintained in such condition that it could be reconverted to its original use on 120 days' notice.  
 My comment--that comment on that has been answered by the Secretary for Defense in the statement which has just been released,  1  and which has my entire approval. It covers the situation thoroughly, and I have covered it in the various messages on the budget which have been sent to the Armed Services Committee of the House.  1  In his statement on April 8, Secretary of Defense Forfestal emphasized that all of the armed services, land, sea, and air, must be kept in balance. Therefore an increase in one would require increases in the others. He advocated bringing to full strength the existing 55-group air force.  
 No, I can't. No, I can't. I will tell you just as soon as I can.  
 I wasn't entered in the part of that primary in which you are interested, so I have no comment.   
 No. No, I haven't seen it. Don't expect to see it.  2  Maurice Morton Milligan, "Missouri Waltz" , New York: C. Scribner's Sons, 1948.  
 He will--what do you mean? He is--doesn't have to be withdrawn. He has a job which I put him in, and in which he is doing well and successfully, and I am satisfied with him. 
 Mr. Woods has been raising thunder with some of these rent people who have been gouging the public. Tighe Woods. Good reason for the man to stay there is that he is a little too tough on some of those birds.  
 All those that we deem necessary have that recovery clause in the contract.  1  On March 20 Representative Johnson wrote to the President suggesting that the War Assets Administration check with the armed services as to possible future needs before disposing of surplus plants. The President's reply, dated March 22, pointed out that clauses permitting recovery in case of need were made part of all contracts. The exchange of letters was made public by Representative Johnson.  
 Well, I said Mr. Woods is doing a good job and he is going to stay right there and continue to do it.  
 No. That question was not discussed with the Prime Minister of Belgium.  
 The law will be followed in the meat strike the same as it will be followed on any other strike which affects the country as a whole.  
 They should not be released, and they will not be released at this time. 
 When you are trading on a piece of real estate, do you get out in front of a press conference and bargain, or do you try to reach an agreement and then announce it to the press conference? 
 Well, we'll see about that. Whenever the--it is necessary to make a release, state all the facts as nearly as we can from our point of view; but if you are going to be successful in negotiations, you can't do it in a glass house. 
 Just by analogy, yes.  We are not dealing in real estate right now.  
 Well, if you will read a certain message of mine which was sent to the Congress a short time ago, that very thing is asked for. I didn't receive it. I received an innocuous program which I have been trying my best to make work.  
 Surveys on that are being made, and I can't comment on it now because I haven't all the facts.  
 Well, I will tell you about that, probably at the next press conference. I told you I was going to give you a lecture on architecture. I may be ready by then.   
 I have no comment to make on that question.  
 No comment to make on that question. That matter is pending before the United Nations now. I do not want to comment at this time. 
 No comment. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and forty first news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, April 8, 1948. 
