 Please be seated.  I have no special announcements for you this morning. I will try to answer questions, however, if I can.    No.   I haven't received the report. I can't make any comment until I know what is in the report. 1  1 See note to Item 204.    I don't know anything about it.    I have been fighting for home rule for 17 years. I hope they will get it this time.    No, there is no hurry. Those things have to be done very deliberately. I meant what I said when I said I would pursue the correspondence. 2  2 See Item 147.    Wall, it's a Reserve Armory, not National Guard.   It's a dedication of the Organized Reserve Armory. Yes, I am.   Well, I expect so. I will make a few remarks off the cuff.  3 3 See Item 218.   At home. I'll stay at home.   I'll be back and forth from the city all the time, just like I always am. I want to take a look at that flood area again, to see how it looks after they started to dean it up.   Walk!  Oh, it won't be very long--three or four miles.   Three or four miles.   Oh, I think I'll compromise with you and ride most of the way, but there will be some of it on foot, of course. I want to see what it looks like.    All I know is what I have seen in the papers. I don't know anything about the facts. I understand the matter is now pending in the courts, and I don't usually comment on those things.    No. No comment. You know how those things go up and down, and a lot of people are disappointed in the results when they finally count them.     That is nothing new for them. It isn't true, of course. Like all the rest of their propaganda, not founded on fact at all.    No, I haven't seen it.  4 The article by Jonathan Daniels, entitled "Truman Can't Lose," is printed in the September 1951 issue of the American Magazine.   Well, any American citizen is entitled to his opinion. I am not expressing mine.    He did not consult me about it. His guess is as good as anybody's.    That's the same kind of a case exactly.    I have done everything I possibly can on that part of that legislation. I am going to keep working at it. Looks rather hopeless now, however. It is a very serious situation.    Yes. Certainly we are.   General Ridgway has expressed the opinion of the American Government, and I am behind him 100 percent.   Yes.    I only know what I saw in the paper. I haven't talked to the Secretary of Agriculture about it.  5 Jack Cowart, former official of the Department of Agriculture. The reasons for his dismissal were not made public.   No. I haven't talked to anybody about it.    Well, I can make a remark or two that I think apropos.  Back in 1947 it was decided, after Mr. Acheson stated the case at Cleveland, Miss., and General Marshall stated it at Harvard University, that economic recovery is what Europe needed in order to stave off the Red aggression.  A plan was worked out, presented to the Congress, and they were informed that we hoped over a 4-year period European recovery could be accomplished for less than$17 billion. The last request brought the total up to about 14 1/2 billion, 2 1/2 less than the original estimate, with success in sight.  Now, it is a pity to overturn the whole applecart in the interests of misplaced economy. It isn't economy, and will not be economy, if the European recovery program is ruined at its conclusion when we are just on the verge of success. And the economic improvement of Europe will be of immense assistance in the rearming of the Atlantic Treaty countries. It all fits in the same pattern. And it isn't economy to do what they are trying to do now to the economic recovery program.   I wonder who the Chief Executive of the United States is ? It is the business of the President of the United States to carry out the mandates of Congress and that is the way this will be handled.   That would be absolutely necessary, anyway. It will be workable.    I don't think the Oatis case will ever be closed until he gets out of jail, at least not in this country. 6  6 See Item 145 .    I can't answer that question until I know just what the bills provide. It is being analyzed now by the Budget.   They wanted to know if there was going to be any reshuffling of the agencies that have to do with the price control and defense production, things of that kind, on account of the tremendous cuts which were made by this Congress. I told him I can't answer the question until the bills are analyzed and we found out just what has been accomplished--or not accomplished, whichever way you want to put it.    No comment. We sent a message which covered the whole situation. 7  You are entirely welcome.  7  The Indian note of August 23, released to the press on August 25, gave the following reasons for India's refusal to attend the Japanese peace treaty conference: "(I) The terms of the Treaty should concede to Japan a position of honour, equality, and contentment among the community of free nations;  They should be so framed as to enable all countries specially interested in the maintenance of a stable peace in the Far East to subscribe to the Treaty sooner or later. The Government of India have after most careful thought come to the conclusion that the Treaty does not in material respects satisfy either of these two criteria." The Indian message and the U.S. reply of August 25 are printed in the Department of State Bulletin .
