[As the conference opened, Charles G. Ross, Press Secretary to the President. made the following statement: "As you all know, this seminar is just for your guidance, for background purposes, and not attribution. And when you ask your questions, will you please always refer to the page number of the Message."]  THE PRESIDENT.  I would like to tell you first about this group of charts here. Has everybody got one of these charts?  If you will notice, the first chart points out the receipts and expenditures, where they come from and where they go. Then there is this chart here, which shows the reverse of it, the way the distribution of expenditures is made--since 1939--which is exactly reverse--very informative. And the next one shows where the money comes from and where it goes; and the next one is on the same line. That last one is the big one--where I was pointing to in the pictures they just took--it shows what happens in an emergency like we have been through since 1938. And the last end of that chart shows what we are trying to do to keep from getting that big a hump again.  I want to call your attention particularly to part 3 in this green book, which gives you some idea of the Government's assets and investments made over the years, which has not before been pointed out. All these people that yell about expenditures don't understand that a tremendous amount of the expenditures we make is an investment in the United States of America, and if those investments were not made we would not be on the income basis that we are on now, so far as the individual and the business of the country is concerned. I think those are all the preliminary remarks that I want to make.  Mr. Ross: Mr. President, may I say again that these remarks are for guidance and for background purposes, not for attribution, which is customary at these seminars.  THE PRESIDENT. He wants me to impress on you that these statements that I make are for guidance and background and not for personal attribution to the President. I think all of you understand that, particularly those who have been here before.  Mr. Pace: You might also ask that when they ask a question that they refer to the page number,  THE PRESIDENT. The Budget Director wants the page number referred to when you ask a question, and it will make it easier for us to answer. You can proceed now.  
 The Budget Director will answer that. I wish you would stand up when you ask your questions so that we can hear you better.  1 Page references in parentheses, throughout this news conference, indicate where the subjects referred to may be found in the Budget Message as printed in Item 9, below; all other page references correspond to the page numbers in the Budget as Published in House Document 405 .  Mr. Pace: Could you repeat that question, please?
 Yes, I have still got that $75 million locked up in the drawer of my desk, and it is going to stay there.  John  2  says he might break the desk down. 2  Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder.  
 I will answer that question in the tax message, in language so that you can understand it without a bit of trouble. 
 I can't--no, it won't go Monday. This message only will go down on Monday. 
 No, no. You spend your time on the budget, and there will be plenty of time to work on the tax message. We are going to have it ready just as promptly as we can. 3   3 Item 18.  
 It is set out right there. Mr. Pace: The figure set out here, because that is one of ERP's responsibilities this year. In other words, if you were going to show that Germany was actually included in ERP, you could state what part of the actual figure of ERP is the one set out here.  
 That sets out exactly what it means right there. 
 Not very greatly. It would reduce it, to some extent, but it would prevent it from piling up at a terrific rate, which we anticipate later. 
 Yes, to some extent it would. 
 Yes. Yes, that is exactly what it is for. That is exactly what it is for. We would all be paying pensions to ourselves if this thing gets spread out too thin. The Budget Director calls attention to the fact that it has been the policy all along, that sections of the GI bill of rights legislation to stop--heads off the general pension plan. I think it has done a remarkable job for the returned veterans, and I think they all think so, too.  
 The Congress has been discussing that matter for quite some time. I would be perfectly happy if they would take this budget and pass it as a whole, just like it is.  
 I didn't understand you? 
 No, this is the budget right here before you. This is the budget we--that we are submitting. This is the budget document here that goes to Congress. I don't think there is anything in addition to this green book. 
 I don't think it would affect it at all. I don't think it would affect it at all. That is a matter for Congress itself to decide. I can't tell them how to handle the budget. All I am interested in is that they don't treat it as they did last year. A lot of them have to be elected this year and they had better get that appropriation bill through in a hurry.  
 I have always been in favor of the item veto. It requires, I understand, a constitutional amendment to have an item veto, and I don't think there is any possible chance of getting that in this budget, or any other one for several years to come.  
 Yes? 
 That's right. That is the whole thing, existing and proposed legislation. 
 That is correct. Mr. Pace: That is correct . THE PRESIDENT. What is it?  
 Payroll taxes, that is what is referred to. 
 That's right.
 Budget will have to answer that.  Mr. Pace: The answer to that is that it would be reflected in the cash budget, but would not be reflected in this budget, which is known as the conventional type budget. 
 We work in American dollars entirely.  
 That's right. 
 No, it is not enough. It is increasing all the time--all the time. 
 The Postmaster General, I think, has the figure all ready to send to the Congress.  Mr. Pace: I think he is working on it at the present time.  THE PRESIDENT. The Budget Director says that the Postmaster General is working on it at the present time, but I have discussed the matter with the Postmaster General and I know that he is going to ask for what it takes to meet that deficit. 
 Yes, I have. And I have also talked to a number of newspapermen, and some commentator fellows, and fellows who have the fight idea think that it ought not to be a subsidy. The thing has run at nearly $3 billion over the last 20 years. Those fellows using the subsidies--that's all right for them--but they yell about some other subsidies. I think they, too, ought to be met.   
 We have that argument every year. The cash budget is what--the cash payments-- 
 --that the Government has to pay out--that the Government has to pay out over previous years. 
 All right, give it to him. 
 All right, we will give it to you.  Mr. Pace: If they will go on with the questions  THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead with the questions. As soon as we get the figures we will come back and answer you.  
 It must be in there. 
 On M85? 
 I don't think it has been authorized, but we are asking for it here.   Mr. Pace: The answer to the previous question, Mr. President, is that the whole figure is set out on page A117--the whole summary and supporting tables--on table 13 on page A117 of the cash budget. That will answer not only your final question but any detailed questions, on page A117. 
 Can you reconcile them, Mr. Budget Director ?  Mr. Pace: The answer on that is that unfortunately in your tables you have to round the figures, and this is purely a question of rounding. The statement and your tables is a rounded figure. The statement in your direct quotations is an accurate statement. 
 $212 billion. 
 That includes corporations, and everything. I think the total figure includes all income--this is personal income. 
 Between 255 and 260 would be your figure that you are talking about.  
 That is set out in the Message on the State of the Union, and I would invite you to read it 4
 That is correct, at present levels. 
 It is subject to change, of course. 
 A4? 
 Well, I hope it will be. 
 I didn't understand your question. Please repeat it. 
 Which page is that?
 That's right. 
 Yes. 
 The Budget Director calls attention to the fact that the operational figure for 1951 is substantially below the operational figure for 1950--about $3 billion--which would have its effect on future years. 
 Yes. 
 You will find a table in there--when I was running through it last night I think table 8 covers it. You will find that under different headings in all the Government. You will find it under table 8. Mr. Pace: Table 8--A63.  THE PRESIDENT. 63--A63--you will find all those things covered in every branch of the Government in table 8.  
 What is it you want to ask?  
 Yes. 
 That is correct--that is correct.  
 No. No, I am not that much of a prophet.  
 It's in one of these tables-I saw it--but I can't remember which one. It is set out in one of those tables.  Mr. Pace: If you will take a look at table 3--pardon me--on pages 96 and 97--it will give you the general picture. Take a look at the recap on A7, it will give you the figures you need.  
 Did you use those figures?  Mr. Pace: We haven't got a breakdown of that in here, no. 
 I can't tell you offhand, I don't know. The Budget Director can get it for you. Mr. Pace: Yes, I can get that.  
 I will answer that in the message on taxes which I am getting ready right now.  
 That is correct. 
 You wanted to know if these figures for the public health on page A49 were based on pending legislation? They are. Mr. Pace: That is correct.  
 Yes. 
 The budget will have to answer that for you.  Mr. Pace: Military public works and equipment are excluded.
 M577 Wait a minute, I haven't found it yet. 
 "This Budget includes--
 "As a step toward correcting this situation, I shall transmit to the Congress a legislative proposal to authorize a limited Federal program to assist capable youth who could not otherwise do so to pursue their desired fields of study at the institutions of their choice." This is about as plain as I can make it. 
 No. 
 The details have not been worked out. 
 No. The exact figure has not been worked out. 
 When we get the details worked out, I will give it to you in a printed statement of what I hope to do. 
 A million dollars. Includes a million dollars. 
 That's right. Mr. Pace: That is just to establish the organization. 
 That is to set up the organization. Don't expect to take care of a one. 
 It might be. Whenever it gets into operation. Of course, it is not in this budget. I don't think we will have any call for it in this budget. But it will be added to the budget whenever we are ready to operate. 
 I think so. 1952. It sets out in M57  that it might begin in fiscal year 1952. 
 I am not prepared to make any statement on the subject now.  5 Earl J. McGrath, Commissioner of Education.  
 I think you will have to ask that question of the Secretary of Defense. I myself can't answer it.  
 That's right. It's for enforcement. Additional employees for enforcement. 
 It has been asked for in present appropriations, but it has not been authorized yet. 
 It will be a good investment for the Government. I think we will take in a billion or a billion and a half more in taxes if we get that through.   What's the matter with you people this morning?  Is this thing so plainly gotten up that no questions are necessary? Go ahead back there?  
 Just a minute. What's the page now ? 
 There are a lot of guesses on that, as high as 278--280, the Secretary of the Treasury says.  Secretary Snyder: I have been trying my best to get to the point where we can pay some of that debt off.  THE PRESIDENT. We did pay $26 billion on it, if you remember, but a certain Congress came along and raised Cain with it 
-- but we are going to make it, some day. 
 I have no statement to make on the subject. I remember when I was in the Senate of the United States I heard distinguished Senators get up and say that whenever the national debt had reached $110 billion the country would go bankrupt and we would all go to hell--and we didn't. And I don't think we will now, either, under present conditions.  
 Yes, we go into detail on that in that message I am promising you 6    6 Item 18.  
 I want it balanced as soon as possible, and I can't set a date on it, as I said awhile ago. Of course I am as anxious to have it balanced as anybody in the country.  
 It has been abolished, but I am asking them to reinstate it. I am asking for it to be set up again in the civil rights legislation. 
 Yes, it has been proposed. 
 Yes. I think if you will read my message on civil rights you will find it's in there. 7    7 See 1948 volume, this series, Item 20. 
 M51? 
 The Secretary of the Treasury says that is a method of financing those programs. 
 You will find them--set out specifically in table 8 that has to do with that part of the budget.  
 Because I don't think they properly should be included in that. We have a special setup for the atomic energy proposition, and the stockpiling is for the general welfare of the whole Government. Stockpiling is included, but I don't think it is necessary that it should be. Mr. Pace: Stockpiling is in the military.  
 I still recommend it, and I am still for it. I have been recommending it ever since October 1945. 8    8 See 1945 volume, this series, Item 174. 
 I estimate it as $800 million. 
 I can't answer offhand. The Budget will have to hunt it up.  
 No, I don't concede it, and I am going to fight for it as long as I am President. And I am going to get it, one of these days.  9 See 1945 volume, Item 192, and 1949 volume, Item 85, this series. 
 In 1947, the Budget Director says.  Mr. Pace: If you look, you will see it.  
 I beg your pardon? 
 I am going to tell you all about it when we get this tax message ready. It will be ready in a few days. 
 Yes--few days. It won't be ready Monday. That is only 2 days off.  Well, gentlemen, I appreciate your interest in this, and I want to say to you that the Budget Bureau and the Treasury will be available to answer any further questions that you may have to ask. We are glad to do it--glad to give you all the information possible in connection with this tremendous pile of figures. We have tried to make it as plain and to set it out in as simple language as possible. I think myself that it is the best budget statement that has been gotten out since I have been President. Thank you very much. Voices: Thank you.  THE PRESIDENT. Oh, the Budget Director wants me to call your attention to page M13 , the Management Improvement Program. I hope you will read that very carefully. That is the first time it has been in the budget. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
