 Please be seated.  I have no statements for release, but I will try my best to answer questions--if you have any.    They are going out for an interview with General Ridgway. It is a customary procedure which has been followed right along. That is about all I can say about it.  1 eneral of the Army Omar N. Bradley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Charles E. Bohlen, Counselor of the Department of State.    I have no views on it.   2  on January 19, 1951, Representative John E. Fogarty of Rhode Island had introduced a resolution "to provide for the unity of Ireland."    Well, now, that is his opinion, and he is entitled to his opinion, the same as I am entitled to mine. And my opinion is expressed in the message.  3 See Item 237.    I have no comment on it.    I have no comment on either question.    Yes, I am. I am always hoping for peace everywhere in the world. Sometimes that hope never comes to fruition, but I still hope for it.  4  British-Iranian dispute on the nationalization of the oil industry in Iran. See Item 140 .    Not that I know of.    He comes to see me whenever he feels like it. I think he is one of the ablest of the labor leaders. He came in to discuss various things with me, particularly the unemployment that now exists among the garment workers.  5  Jacob Potofsky, General President, Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America.    I have been trying to hurry that along for 6 years, May, 6  but your Senators and Representatives are not very enthusiastic about it. That's one of the reasons I haven't been able to get it. Mrs. Smith  7  is for it, but I don't know of anybody else who is in that neck of the woods that is for it.  6  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 7  Senator Margaret Chase Smith of Maine.   That is correct. That survey is now finished, and that has some connection with the St. Lawrence Seaway. The power pool in that part of the country will be made up, if we get it, of the St. Lawrence Seaway and the Bay of Fundy project.    No.  8 W. Averell Harriman, Special Assistant to the President.    I hadn't that under consideration at all.   Hadn't.    The bill hasn't reached me. Until I make a survey of it, I can't give you any answer on its administration.  9  See Item 250.   That's right.   No, I haven't decided yet.    The best answer to that is that I have appointed more career men in all the fields than any other President. There are two career men in my Cabinet.  10  John B. Dunlap, Commissioner of Internal Revenue.   No, not at all. If a man is able to fill the bill and has had experience in those positions, it is always best to appoint him.   Yes. I have been in elective office for 30 years. I think that's a pretty good career. Will be 30 years, at the end of my present term.   I know that's not what he meant. But he got his answer.     No, I haven't.  11  William M. Boyle, Jr., chairman of the Democratic National Committee.    No, I can't.   He wanted to know if I can say anything about the exchanges between the British Prime Minister and myself on Iran, and I said I couldn't make any comment on it.    None that I knew of.  What's the matter with you? Are you out of "soap"?    Yes. On the St. Lawrence Seaway project.  12 See Item 240.    No, it hasn't. Probably will be, though, before it is finished.    Wall, I think they were very well summarized in the communique which was issued by the two of us.  13  I think that answers your question.  What's the matter?   13  See Item 232.   All right.    Yes, there is a very good reason--because we want to get them both constructed.   Yes, but I am not for it. I never have been in favor of taking them apart, for the very simple reason that I don't want to see one constructed without the other. I would like to see them both constructed.  That's all right.
