  We have got arrangements made for an expert to answer any technical questions, from now until Saturday night: Weldon Jones; telephone number is Executive 3300, extension 118. And Saturday his telephone number will he Executive 3308. So if anybody wants to ask him any technical questions about the Budget, you are welcome to do it.  All of you have this summary here on what has happened--what we expect to happen. And the first page , 1  I think, sets out the situation in words of one syllable so most anybody can understand it. And those of you who have read the document from one end to the other, I think will not need any seminar; but if you want to ask any questions, I will try to answer them as best I can.  1 Page references in parentheses, throughout this news conference, indicate where the subjects referred to may be found in the Statement by the President on the Review of the 1947 Budget as published herein .    Surely. The Budget is an estimated document. The actual cash transactions that take place with the Government are those that are on a 2 billion, 800 million income basis more than goes out.  Mr. Appleby: Mr. President, if I may interject there, I think this particular question has to do with the difference between the trust accounts and the general--  That's right.  Mr. Appleby: And the trust accounts include social security funds which during recent years have been drawing in money from out in the country and in greater amount than they pay out. And the President was trying to get to the fact that the net of what is paid out to the country is less-less than we are taking from the country. But the difference here is just intended to differentiate between trust accounts which are not in the regular operating budget of the Government, and the general and special, which is the budget that we talk about.    No you don't. You shouldn't add the two together, you should subtract one from the other. Mr. Appleby: That's right. HE PRESIDENT. That's right.  Secretary Snyder: The difference between the accounting and the cash would be the two together. One is the deficit and the other is an increase. The difference between the accounting and the actual cash transaction would be the two together.   Well yes, but I still say it's a difference in subtraction. But these trust accounts like social security, and those accounts, are--what do I want to say?--is an insurance--an insurance--actuarial reserve, which belongs to the people who pay them in. The operation of the Government is an entirely different thing, which is set out in the table on page 5 , I think, as completely and thoroughly as it can be.   That has nothing to do with it whatever. The handling of terminal leave is included in the $1 billion. That has nothing to do with the 2 billion cash business at all.    No. That is included in the billion, nine.   The net billion, nine includes that.   That's right, so that if they do it, there will still be no further reduction. That's right exactly.   That's right. It is going to be a most difficult thing to do with the 2 billion, two which we have already ordered into effect.  It's nice to talk about making reductions, but it's hell to do it!     Yes I do.   Yes I do. Yes I do. Had the Congress listened carefully, we would have it balanced.   Of what?  I would rather you wouldn't.   I would rather you wouldn't quote me on that, because I am having enough trouble; and they are going to come back after awhile.   No, I would rather not. Let's let it answer for itself when the end of the year comes.   Yes, you can say I am still hopeful. That will be all right. It is much better than it was at the beginning; but I will say this, that under ordinary conditions we would have it balanced.   No it isn't. No it isn't. I blame conditions over which nobody really had any control. Of course, the payment of terminal leave, the raising of six or seven hundred million dollars in the pay of the military personnel, and a great many other things, simply added to our troubles.   First paragraph?   That is true. There is no use blaming anybody for it.   No.  Of course. We've got to have a Congress. The law provides for it.  No, I am not announcing--  No, I am not announcing a special session at this time.   Yes it would. Mr. Appleby: Yes.   Yes. They carried out a program of their own. They didn't carry out mine.   Page 6 ? That's the--I signed those bills, if that's what you mean. I recommended the Philippine War Damage Rehabilitation--the loan to the Philippine Republic. Those are the only two that I really recommended to the Congress. But I signed the bills which created the other.   Well, you can translate it that way, if you like.    It has to be counted in this year.   Well, the Treasury is responsible for its payment this year, and it's made on the day it becomes due.   Not in actual money, no.   For practical purposes and refunding the appropriations, that would be true, but we still owe it for this year.    Yes. Yes--[to Mr. Appleby]--tell him why.  Mr. Appleby: Increased dollar volume of business.  That's right. Increased dollar volume of business.   I beg your pardon ?   That's what we are talking about. Mr. Appleby: For the same reason.   Takes into account everything.   Oh yes, certainly. They are always based on--   --the national income. And it's only an estimate. It's a total volume of national income of about $165 billion.   Yes, I think you can use it, but that is an estimate. Bear in mind it is the same as the estimate on which we based the first income, which was $140 billion.    It says that here in this document.   What page is that? Mr. Appleby: At the end.   Oh, at the end of the document.   Salary raises, mostly.   Surely, because personnel in nearly every instance has been reduced--there are, I think, seven hundred thousand fewer people on the payroll now than when the estimate was made.   I don't know how you would absorb it in the judiciary. I can't fire the judiciary at five thousand dollars a head here.    It's being absorbed in every other department.   Well, the $600 million in there is for Army pay.   Yes--oh no, not for civil departments. Along which line is that?   That's right, that's right. That covers the situation thoroughly.   One of them--the second one is a cutback, isn't it?  The second one is a cutback, which answers your question, I think?  I don't see how you get that, because there isn't an increase over 1945, there couldn't be, except for salary raises, because there are over 600 thousand--between six and seven hundred thousand fewer people on the payroll than there were in 1945.   I was trying to figure out how it got--I'll give you Mr. Appleby. Mr. Appleby: This is pretty complex. Almost all personnel changes that have taken place have been in the defense category, and so these overall figures are not exactly responsive to the inquiry. I would say that the principal change in this billion, 683 is program change. Some increase in the Department of Labor, there is some increase in there of what we anticipated. There is $3 million more for FBI in here than we anticipated in January. A few other items of that kind.   In some places, yes. Not in every instance.   Not in every instance, by any means.  Mr. Appleby. No overall since January.   No.   No, there hasn't been an overall increase since January. There has been a decrease since January. The only place increases have been are in those increased programs in Commerce, and Labor, and the national defense--that is, War and Navy. There has been a tremendous cut-- Mr. Appleby. War Assets.   War Assets have been reduced. Mr. Appleby: And the Veterans Administration. There have been substantial increases in the Veterans Administration and the Post Office. In some part, that increase in the Post Office is a bookkeeping increase. There were some people--about sixty thousand--who worked for the Post Office but were not technically and legally employees of the Government. That has not changed, so sixty thousand of the Post Office personnel is bookkeeping.   That is true.    That's right.  Mr. Appleby: In January we expected the money for the International Monetary Fund to be paid out of the Treasury in fiscal '46. The transaction was not completed because the Fund was not fully organized at that time, so that money will be paid out in fiscal '47.  MR. PRESIDENT. About a billion, four--some such figure as that--that was carried over from '46 to '47. That, I suppose, will be carried over in the '46 budget.   No.   Yes, I can--2 billion, two that we have asked--that can be broken down--you can get that from the Budget department.    Page 8 ?  It takes a little more than rough arithmetic to understand the Federal Government, it takes calculus.  go ahead.   I am not counting that they could not be made. They are going to be made, or we'll break somebody's neck.   They have, yes.   The force of the directive is that it will not be included in the estimate for payment by the executive branch of the Government. The Budget will not recommend the payment.   Oh, yes. These are mostly construction items, and things of that sort that can be easily deferred.    Tax refunds which were included in the last tax bill.   Yes.   Yes, you can get those figures.   From the Treasury.    Yes.  Mr. Appleby: There have been a series of economy actions by the President that in total have amounted to a very great deal more of appropriation or money. And there is also--except there is no duplication involved in this--2 billion, two of money that was available to the agencies for expenditure in various forms which has been returned to the Treasury by executive action. That money is definitely saved to the Treasury. That is strictly a financial transaction. Then the 2 billion, two transaction is an expenditure control transaction. Regardless of how much money remains in the appropriation accounts, the President has directed the agencies to limit their expenditures in the fiscal year to a specific amount of money, and that will result in the reduction of the 2 billion, two. Now those two reductions together amount to a saving of 4 billion, four or so. Then there have been other actions taken by the President in recommending the rescissions of appropriations of $58 billion during the year, and the reduction in the estimates requested by the agencies referred to in here of 7 billion; so that the President by his control of the budget in all these various ways has effected a reduction of funds available for expenditure by a total of $70 billion during this year.    I want to say, instead of calling the Treasury for that tax refund business, call Mr. Jones, he will have the figures. The Treasury will furnish him the figures, and we will figure the  Mr. Appleby: It might be, on that, that I could give a simple answer and save a telephone call. That is really just a percentage increase on the basis of increased receipts. On the income tax returns, people overpay, sometimes intentionally, but make a claim, so the more your receipts are the larger the refunds are. It is pretty automatic.    That is another one--that is still another one. You have got to read this very carefully. Go ahead, Mr. Appleby.  Mr. Appleby: Well, this is a sort of resume of what has happened on the Government front since January. Certain programs were then estimated for expenditures anticipated. Since then there have been changes, such as terminal leave, increase in veterans' programs, amounting in all to 1 billion, eight.   No, we haven't made an estimate on that.   Well, the average price level is presupposed in this, and we are anticipating not a greater increase than 1 percent a month.    No. We are trying to carry out the mandate of Congress and absorb the price raises in decreased personnel in those agencies which are not increased by the Congress itself. It's a difficult job, but we are trying to do it.    That's right.   It was expected to be charged against the '46 budget, but we didn't get around to it, so it had to go in the '47. Just like the terminal leave pay, it has to be charged against this year's business.    You need not attribute that to me, but it is the anticipated situation. If we want to hold the situation in that line, it will take this budget, price control, and every other anti-inflationary thing that we can use to hold that line. I don't know whether we can hold it or not, but we are going to try to do it.    No, it is not included -- Mr. Appleby: Export-Import Bank.   Export-Import Bank is the rest of the thing. That is, of course--that whole thing is two banks, the Export-Import Bank and the International Bank.   That is not included, because it was not asked for.   It's only that part--we have only included that part of the British loan which we knew would be spent in this year.   I don't know. I don't know the exact figure. The Treasury has been authorized to set up a $300 million credit for the British at the present time.    They mean just exactly what they say. You can't translate them into anything else except exactly what they say.   I don't think it needs to be increased.   Yes.   They will be released they will be for release at the same time this document is for release.   That is already anticipated, that my suggestions will be carried out.   You are certainly not out of questions at this stage, are you ?  I am anxious for you to see the thing and understand it. We tried to put it in as clear a statement as possible, but we want everybody to have access to the actual figures, to understand it as we think we do. So I want you to be free with your questions, both to me and to Mr. Jones. There is nothing in here--there is no double-talk in this message at all. It means exactly what it says.    Yes--substantially. We have tried to base it on what we anticipated would be the average price level for the year.   Yes.  Why certainly. I want you to understand that the budget and the operation of the Government is an entirely distinct thing from those trust funds, but we are stating that, to show that actually there will be more money turned in that will be paid out which we can turn into credit, because that would be paid in, in any case.   We are accepting that as a cash payment for this year, charged against the budget for this year.    We had such difficulty handling the surplus property program. That is the reason for it. We have had so many hampering things in the way of priorities, and so forth, it was almost impossible to transact business with surplus property. In fact, General Gregory got so disgusted with it, it made him sick, and he had to quit. It would make anybody sick if you tried to do it, but we are trying to do the best we can. This property deteriorates every day we have it, and everything that has been done in the sale of this property has caused a loss, just like any other bankrupt outfit. That's what it amounts to.    We'll see what the situation-how the situation develops, and if it's necessary, I will ask for it, and if it isn't, I won't.    That is reflection of higher income. That's what that is. More people getting money enough to pay taxes, and the dollar increase in value, which increases the income.  1 Official Reporter's transcript illegible.  No. No, there is not.   A tremendous cut in the corporation tax by the last Congress, if you will read that tax bill.  Mr. Appleby: The graduation figure in the personal tax would make a difference, you see. As incomes are higher, the percentage of income paid in taxes goes up. That is no longer true with respect to corporations.    Yes, I think you will find those things listed--what that includes--over on page 2 . It tells exactly what those things are. That includes the veterans' increases and the pay increase for the Army, and things of that sort.  Mr. Appleby: Well, Mr. President, there is the War Assets Administration in there, and foreign surplus disposal, and defense aid, some wind-up of lend-lease. Again, some of that is a deferral from '46 where transactions did not occur in '46.   Don't get the idea that national defense is just confined to the Army and Navy, because it's included in nearly every department of the Government. In total war it takes every department of the Government in the national defense; and I don't want any confusion about that, because the first objective of everybody who wants to reduce expenditures in Government is to cut the Army and Navy to the bone, because they don't vote. They do now, but they didn't hitherto.   Yes, it includes UNRRA. That's the National Defense Act.    I sent for the fellow who made that statement, and he couldn't tell me how he would do it. I talked to him on the subject. I was very anxious to have him point out to me just how he could do it. He couldn't tell me. He had no explanation. It was just a political statement, easy to make but hard to carry out.   I beg your pardon?   Yes, day before yesterday, I think.   No you can't--it's off the record. I promised him I wouldn't tell you about it. It's off the record entirely. You talk to him about it, maybe he can tell you how he did it. He couldn't tell me. 1  1 See Item 215 .  I shouldn't be surprised, but we are trying to tell you the truth, regardless of what the results will be.    Yes. Neighborhood of 5 billion. Mr. Appleby: It shows returns were about 6, I believe, but I think under present conditions, if we had had the excess profits tax still on the books, it would amount to a good deal more than that.   In my head I had it somewhere that it was about 5 billions. Well, gentlemen? Reporters: Thank you, Mr. President.   We want you to be entirely clear in your mind about this, so that is the reason why we have this special phone number that you can call over weekend.
