 I have one announcement a couple of announcements to make for you   I am going to appoint Governor M. C. Wallgren to be Chairman of the National Security Resources Board, succeeding John R. Steelman, who has been acting--to succeed Mr. Arthur Hill who resigned Mr. Wallgren is particularly fitted for this job because he had a great deal of experience in that line on a certain Senate committee on which he served, of which I was the chairman. 1  I have had him under consideration for this job for quite some time, ever since Mr. Hill resigned.  1  Special Senate Committee to Investigate Contracts under the National Defense Program. 
 Wait a minute--I have got another announcement to make--then you can ask your question.   The situation in the West with regard to this storm program, I am informed by General Fleming, is well in hand. Every part of the Government that had any help to offer has been at work on the situation, and General Fleming says it is well on the road to being solved, if we don't get any more storms in the immediate future.  Now, what is your question back there?  
 I don't know--I think it's $10,000 a year?  Dr. Steelman: $14,000.  THE PRESIDENT. $14,000 a year. I didn't know what the salary was. Mr. Steelman says it's 14,000 a year.  
 I can't answer that question intelligently until I know what the losses add up to, and we can't tell exactly what the losses are until the snow goes away, and I don't know what effect it will have on the market. It will depend on just how bad the grass-fed cattle are injured-and sheep, too.  
 I don't understand the question. Will you repeat it? 
 The powers of the President, so I am informed, are sufficient to meet emergencies of that sort, and that is the basis on which we are working. 
 There isn't any that I know of, but we didn't do it because we didn't think it was necessary. 
 That is my opinion. 
 I never have been in agreement with Taft on labor. 
 Yes, the Constitution and the implied powers of the President, so I am informed by the Attorney General, and I think he ought to know. 
 No, I can't. If you closely read the history of the country, you will find that Washington used them, and Jackson used them. They have been used by several Presidents. Lincoln used them all the time while he was President. Whenever there is an emergency, the President has immense powers to do what is right for the country. 
 I will answer that question if we ever have to cross that bridge. 
 A combination of both.  
 I have the matter under consideration. I will let you know about it when I get ready to act on it.  
 I have no comment to make on that, and when I am ready to appoint an Ambassador to the Philippines, you will know about it--I will let you know about it. 2   2 Emmet O'Neal served as U.S. Ambassador to the Philippines from June In, 1947, through January 20, 1949. On March 1, 1949, the Senate confirmed the appointment of Myron Cowen as U.S. Ambassador to the Philippines.  
 Nearly every Ambassador in the employ of the United States has resigned. I have got a book full of them. I can't form any decision because there are so many of them. 
 When I take any action again, I will let you know about it. I don't know what is going to be done.  
 I do not. 
 General Clay will continue in control of the military government in Germany.  
 That was completely and fairly answered by the Secretary of State yesterday, after consultation with me. 3   3  The "Stalin overtures" consisted of replies to four questions submitted to Premier Stalin on January 27, 1949, by Kingsbury Smith, European General Manager of the International News Service. Premier Stalin's replies, together with extended comments by Secretary Acheson at his press conference of February 2, are published in the Department of State Bulletin .  Secretary Acheson concluded his remarks on the so-called Stalin overtures with the following words: "As I say, all of the normal channels are open. I hope you will not take it amiss if I point out that if I on my part were seeking to give assurance of seriousness of purpose I would choose some other channel than the channel of a press interview."  
 I am glad he did. That pleases me immensely.  4  The proposed Reorganization Act of 1949 which the President signed on June 20, 1949 .  
 Don't you think you had better wait until that bill 4 comes up here for me to sign and see what's in it? I don't think you know what's going in it, and neither do I. 
 It has to go through two committees before we can tell what's in the bill. I hope there will be no exemptions.  
 It would not. I think Dean Acheson made that perfectly clear. 5   5  See Department of State Bulletin .  
 I have no comment to make on it. 6   6  According to newspaper reports the Norwegian Government informed the Soviet Union on February 1 that, while it would investigate the conditions under which Norway could participate in a North Atlantic defense alliance, it would never grant bases for foreign powers unless attacked or subjected to threats of attack.  The information was contained in a note delivered by Foreign Minister Halyard Lange to the Soviet Ambassador at the Foreign Office. The note was a reply to the Kremlin's request that Norway clarify her attitude toward the proposed North Atlantic pact.  The note informed the Soviet Union that Norway's desire to seek "increased security" had prompted her to consider joining a North Atlantic defense grouping.  
 I think that that should be done every day, not necessarily on any special day.  
 Yes. I was a very great admirer of Woodrow Wilson. I think he will go down in history as one of the great Presidents of the United States. He was the father of the League of Nations, and of course that resulted finally in the United Nations. I am sending the military aide out there because today is the anniversary of his death, with a wreath to be placed on his tomb.  
 I think it was fully covered in Acheson's statement. 
 I have no further comment to make on it.  
 I hope that will be the case, because if the President's hands tied, from experience I know that there will be no reorganization. I am hoping that this time we will get something constructive and effective, so we can make things more efficiently--work more efficiently in the executive branch of the Government. I think everybody's interested in that.  I have said once before here at a press conference that everybody has their pet that I am afraid is going to get to work around it somewhere. I hope that won't interfere with what Congress is going to do, and I don't think it will.  
 I can make no comment on it, because I know nothing about it, only what I have seen in the papers.  
 I invited Mr. Stalin here to Washington, in Potsdam when I was there, add I have restated that I will be glad to see him here any time he wants to come.  I think if you will look around into it, you will find that is as far as it is necessary for me to go. 
 I answered your question.  
 Of course she did. 
 Certainly. What father wouldn't advise his daughter on what is best for her career? 
 The question was whether my daughter had consulted with me as to her career before she went to New York, and of course she did. 
 What? That's none of his business.   7  Frank Bourgholtzer of the National Broadcasting Company. 
 That was a perfectly good question of yours--don't worry about it.    Q, When you were asked that question about Alaska, did I understand you to say Nome?   THE PRESIDENT. I didn't answer.  
 I haven't any notification that he is coming. If I get that notification, of course the guest room will be gotten ready.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and sixtyseventh news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4:02 p.m. on Thursday, February 3, 1949. 
