 The conference this morning requested me to make a statement to you as to what happened. It was a very harmonious and a very good conference. Everybody had everything he wanted to say, and he had a chance to say it--had a chance to get it off his chest. And the whole meeting was very constructive, I think.  Now I am going to read you the statement, which will be available to you in mimeographed form by the time you get out of here.   "I conferred at length with the congressional leaders, with reference to the critical economic situation which exists in Western Europe. I am writing the chairmen of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Senate Committee on Appropriations, and the House Committee on Appropriations, requesting that they call their committees together to consider the urgent need for aid to Western Europe.  "I know that some of the members of these committees are now in Europe investigating conditions at first hand. It is my earnest hope that as soon as the members of the various committees have returned to this country, they will meet.  "The question of calling a special session of Congress was discussed at length with the congressional leaders. Whatever decision may be reached on this subject at a later date, it was the opinion of all that the committees should begin to consider the present emergency at the earliest possible date that members are available.  "Recent events have brought about increasingly critical economic conditions in some of the countries of Western Europe. Unusually bad European harvests, together with rising costs and lessened supplies of American food, have upset recovery plans and endangered the progress already made. In particular, France and Italy are without adequate fuel and food supplies for the fall and winter, and do not have the resources with which to buy them.  "The prospect of a general recovery program for Western Europe, aided by the United States, has raised their hopes for eventual recovery and has strengthened democratic forces. But, if this recovery program is to have a chance of success, means must be found for aiding France and Italy to survive this critical winter as free and independent nations.  "A searching examination has already been conducted of all possible ways in which France and Italy might be aided without additional action by the Congress. Action by the various agencies of the executive branch under existing authority may meet the most urgent needs of the next few weeks, but funds available from executive sources are inadequate to provide assistance beyond December. Assistance this winter, in sums much larger than the executive branch can provide with funds now at its disposal, is essential. That assistance can come only from the Congress.  "The early convening of the congressional committees referred to is the necessary first step in meeting the problems that confront us." \. I didn't attempt to make any survey of that sort. I was merely putting the problem up to them. I think most of them were of the opinion that it should be met. \. That remains to be seen. I am in the same position, in the same frame of mind, I have always been. If it becomes necessary to call that special session, I will call it. \. It runs about $580 million. \. NO. That will run to the 31st of March. \. I can't provide any of it. \. No, that is for the whole situation. \. No. The sums that are available now will carry until December. Then the pipeline will become empty unless it is filled up again, and that is the necessity for the additional cost. \. It is estimated that would carry to December. \. I can't set a date like that. It will carry just as far as we can. \. There isn't enough, but there is enough to meet them on a starvation basis. That is the situation. \. Yes. \. That's right. \. The Congress appropriated $342 million to carry on the program left by UNRRA, and then, of course, the $400 million for Greece and Turkey is specifically appropriated for that purpose. \. I can't answer that question. \. Yes, there will be additional funds needed for the occupied countries. \. That is something aside from the 580 million. \. That covers the starvation situation. \. Yes--keep people from freezing and starving to death this winter, just as it was last winter--almost the same situation. \. France and Italy, Austria and Germany. \. That goes in the War Department appropriation. That is a separate program entirely. That is in the occupied countries program. \. France, Italy, Germany, and Austria--France and Italy--no--France, Italy, and Austria. \. Yes. \. England is not in any serious situation at the present time. \. That is the situation. \. It was mentioned incidentally, but it was not discussed. We only discussed the emergency plan--emergency situation this morning, which is entirely separate--entirely separate. The situation that we are faced with. It has come upon us rather suddenly. \. No I haven't. \. NO I haven't. \. I am writing letters to the chairmen of all these committees, asking them to meet as soon as convenient. \. Well, it depends on the attitude of the committees of the Congress, as to whether the special session will be necessary or not. If they are wholeheartedly in favor of the program, of course then there would be no difficulty about calling a special session. If they were not in favor of doing anything, there would be no necessity for the special session. \. They are not available. \. Not available. Prohibited from use for that purpose. \. Same applies to the Commodity Credit Corporation. \. NO, it cannot be used--only for what it is specifically appropriated for, and that is Greece and Turkey. \. That is correct. \. Well, we have been--we have been furnishing grain to Belgium and the Low Countries, but they have been paying for their shipments, and I think they are still in the position to do that. \. Oh yes. Everybody understands the urgency of the situation. \. I did not.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and twentieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 3:25 p.m. on Monday, September 29, 1947. 
