 Please be seated. I have no special announcements to make this morning, but I will try to answer questions, if I Can.  
 I am not interested in the Russian delegation. I am highly pleased with the performance of the American delegation. I think it is one of the most wonderful performances that has been held since I don't know when. And the same can be said for the British delegation. I don't like filibusters. You should have asked the question the other way around. I am on the American side. 1 Jacob A. Malik held the rotating presidency of the Security Council during August. In that capacity he was able by various maneuvers to block action on the principal item on the agenda, the "Complaint of aggression upon the Republic of Korea." 
 It doesn't make any difference. We have been putting them down. 
 No doubt about it. Did you ever see a filibuster before?
 You've been here almost as long as I have. 
 I can't answer hypothetical questions, for I don't know.  
 Mr. Harriman, I think, expressed all that can be said in the press conference which he held right here in this room. 2  What he said was substantially what he had reported to me.  2 W. Averell Harriman, special foreign coordinator for President Truman, stated in a press conference on August 9 that United States policy toward Formosa had been set by Mr. Truman on June 27 and that this policy had not been changed since that time . The policy, Mr. Harriman went on to remind the reporters, was aimed at isolating Formosa from the mainland both by preventing attacks on the island by the Communists and by preventing Nationalist efforts to return to the mainland.  
 Have you seen the memorandum which I have sent to all the Departments? 3  If you haven't, I would advise you to read it, and that will answer your question.  3  See Item 196. 
 Well, it was not a public document, but everything of that kind leaks, and a good one ought to leak once in a while.  
 That was made public, Charlie says.  You probably didn't keep up with the bandwagon. I thought it had been. But if it hadn't, it could very easily have leaked.  
 I did not.  4 On August 4 the President received a telegram from R. O. Hughes, president of the Order of Railway Conductors, and from W. P. Kennedy, president of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, in which they blamed the carriers for the lack of progress in settling the railroad dispute and recommended that the "Government take possession of and operate the  
 I take my military advice from the military leaders, and I am optimistic, as they are.  
 I have no plan.  
 Sure. 
 I haven't met anybody yet. 
 I haven't met anybody of that sort yet. General MacArthur and I are in perfect agreement, and have been ever since he has been in the job he is now. I put him there, and I also appointed him Commander in Chief of American and Allied Forces, at the suggestion of the United Nations. I am satisfied with what he is doing.  
 Well, I will tell you just exactly what the situation is. As in the case of the request for controls, I asked for a tax that I hoped could be promptly enacted. An excess profits tax is a very controversial matter. Of course, eventually, there will be an excess profits tax, but the Congress ought to have plenty of time to work it out when they haven't the election jitters. And I think it railroads in the United States until such time as this dispute is settled in fairness to the rights of our members." See also Item 221. would be better to work that out after the election than now.  If they will act promptly on the tax I asked for, it will help, to some extent, with this inflationary spiral with which we have been threatened. That is the reason for the request for the increased taxes. 
 Of course.  
 No, I have no comment.  5 On August 8 Senator Glen H. Taylor of Idaho, vice presidential candidate in 1948 on the Progressive Party ticket headed by Henry A. Wallace, was defeated in Idaho's primary election for the Democratic senatorial nomination by former Senator D. Worth Clark. 
 I don't know anything about it--only what I have seen in the papers. And when I get the official returns, then maybe I'll comment on it.  
 I think that is something that really ought to be done. It is helpful to our allies, and it will help our relations in the American hemisphere. That tax ought never to have been put on there in the first place. They should not have let it expire. I requested it time and time again, that they not let it expire. 
 The question was about the copper tax. 
 It has been under suspension, but the time expired some time ago--I think the 1st of July.  
 I can't answer any questions like that--now--I'm sorry.  
 I have been spending the last 5 years improving the administrative setup of the Federal Government, by reorganization plans and in other ways. We have an excellent and efficient administrative setup in the Federal Government, and there is no reason in the world why it can't operate successfully under all conditions. 
 You can take it to mean that, if you like.  
 I will answer that if the matter is put up to me. It hasn't been, as yet.  
 That is correct--not yet. 
 No. 
 The House and Senate must legislate and put the matter up to me, and then I will comment on it. I have asked them for exactly what I want, very specifically.  
 Well, it is not necessary to bring it up, because there isn't going to be one. 
 That's correct--that's correct.  
 I certainly would.  
 No, I have no comment. Senatorial courtesy still works.  6 Four of President Truman's nominees for Federal office were rejected by the Senate on August 9: Frank E. Hook to the Motor Carrier Claims Commission, Martin A. Hutchinson to the Federal Trade Commission, and two Federal judges already sitting under "recess" appointments, Judges M. Neil Andrews of the Northern District of Georgia and Carroll O. Switzer of the Southern District of Iowa.  
 No comment.  
 Will you repeat that--will you repeat that, please? I didn't get it. 
 The United Nations is set up for that, for the purpose to which you refer. The United Nations Security Council is in session, and the Assembly will be in session in a very short time. That is the place for these things to be taken up.  
 Yes, that is correct. 
 Themselves principally, I think.  
 Yes, I hear from Dr. Steelman every day, but I have no comment on what he has had to say. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are entirely welcome.  7 John R. Steelman, Assistant to the President.
