 Please be seated.  I have no particular announcements to make this morning, but I will try to answer questions, if you have any.    Well now, I can't answer that question. I am sure there are plenty of people who are ambitious for the job. They don't know what they are getting into, though.   No. Wouldn't be seemly for me to name them.   I don't think I made any such statement as that. I said I didn't think he would be a candidate on the Democratic ticket. I didn't say he wouldn't be.   But I rather think, my friends, that we have worked that vein pretty nearly to the vanishing point, and I think there are more important things to talk about than who is going to be a candidate for the Presidency next year.   Certainly. If I were a candidate I would.   1  See Item 165[8].   No comment.   What was that?  I said no comment.    That is the intention.    I don't know. It will be all right, if he wants to address the Conference. I would have no objection to it whatever. And if the State Department invites him, he undoubtedly will. I think Mr. Dulles covered the situation pretty well. 2  2 On August 15 John Foster Dulles, Consultant to the Secretary of State, released a statement on the forthcoming San Francisco Conference on the proposed Japanese Peace Treaty. Excerpts are published in the Department of State Bulletin .    The program that was announced was done by the National Security Resources Board, and they have been at it for the last year and a half.    To support the program that we are trying to put across with everything they have.   No. That is up to them.   They are citizens the same as I am.    I am still in the middle of the investigation, and I can't comment on it.  4 See Item 188 .   I am.   I am conducting it myself.    No, only that we are very happy that they are coming and we will try to give them as warm a welcome as we possibly can.    They will.   They will. They are going to sign the Japanese treaty.   I have no further information on that. I know they are going to sign it--both the treaty and the security pact.   If he wants to see me, I will be most happy to talk with him.    Well, I am supposed to be there on the 4th.   Yes.    No. I don't think the treaty arrangements can be upset by anybody.    No comment.  5  See Item 191.   No comment.   I appointed one yesterday. 6  I haven't signed his commission yet, but as soon as the commission is signed, why it will be announced in the regular way. But I appointed one yesterday.   No. I can't remember it.    Yes, I saw it. I thought it was a very good article, and was written in a manner that was very truthful, and written by a man who knows what he is talking about, and I am not acquainted with him.  7  The article, "A Few Kind Words for Harry Truman," by Henry Steele Commager, was printed in Look magazine of August 28, 1951. The article was reprinted in the Congressional Record .   I am not acquainted with him. Never talked to him in my life. He has worked out that article from the facts.    Well, when I was in the Senate a similar poll was taken, and I happened to be in the position of Senator Douglas. I compliment him on being in that position.   No further comment.     No. I think--there is no comment I can make at the present time.    No comment.    Just happen to have!   I will comment on that at a later time, when it will do the most good, and tell you exactly the why and the wherefore for that statement.    I have been urged to do that by a great many people. I haven't made up my mind yet, but when I do, I will let you know in plenty of time so that you can pack your grips--if I decide to go.     We will have to let that take care of itself. We will see what the conditions are. What is it you wanted, Tony? 8  8 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.    I am supposed to stop at home on the way back, and stay a day or two, if something doesn't come up to force me to come back immediately.   You're welcome.
