 I have no statements for you today, but I will try my best to answer questions, if you have any.    Well, my observations are that it was a kind of a poor result that we got. 1  I think more action could very well have been taken. There were instances when committees refused even to meet to hear the administration's views on the subjects on which we asked them to act. On those things that they did act upon, it didn't take them very long. I think it took 40 minutes to pass the appropriation for the-authorization for the United Nations loan; and it didn't take them very long to take the emasculated housing bill out, when they wanted to act. And the educational bill, and the Taft--Ellender-Wagner bill--the housing bill that I asked for--were both in the same shape as the U.N. loan was. And I think they could have taken a great many more actions, very easily, and in just as short a time, if they had been so inclined.  1  On August 12 the White House released a summary of action taken by the special session in response to the measures proposed by the President in his message of July 27 .   I would say it was entirely a "do-nothing" session. I think that's a good name for the 80th Congress.   I have no comment on that.    General Eisenhower didn't think so. General Eisenhower didn't think so.  1  See Item 170 .   Yes, I do. The first--the strongest type you can smell.    No, I haven't been informed yet. The machinery hasn't been completely set up. I will let you know whenever the time is ready.   I haven't given it any consideration. There is no reason why they shouldn't.    You are mistaken about that. They haven't been ordered to be deported, and every effort is being made to treat them just like those that landed down in Florida. 1  This is different from the one in Florida. And Congressman Kennedy of Boston introduced a bill to allow these people to stay. Of course, the Congress didn't get to act on it. The Attorney General and the Immigration Service are doing everything they possibly can to keep these people in the country.  1  See 1946 volume, this series, Items 239 and 246.   Well, I can't answer that until we have all the facts. But there is no order of deportation being asked, and there won't be one in the immediate future.    I am conferring tonight with the Chairman of the National Committee and some of the men who are connected with the White House and the National Committee, and with Senator Barkley.   That is tonight, yes.    No.    I am very happy that he accepted. He will make a good Secretary of Labor.    No, I haven't.   No, I will probably go out of town on the ship down the Potomac River for a few days at the end of next week, if everything holds together, and get a little sleep.   No.   No. No, I do not.     No. There is absolutely nothing to it. That increase was brought about, I think you will find, due to the European recovery program, and also I know of no appointments on that setup except those necessitated by Mr. Hoffman. I didn't make any of them, rest assured on that.    He will be at the Cabinet meeting tomorrow at 10 o'clock, and I think he will take his oath immediately after that.    No, it isn't.    No. When I get ready to release them, I will give them to you so as to give you plenty of time to pack your bags and everything.   Well, I will answer that question when I decide to make the announcement that I am going to do it.    I hadn't heard about it.    I hope Mr. Taft is a good prophet. I don't agree with him.   Well, let's wait and see. Your guess is as good as mine on that subject. It has been the case ever since price controls were taken off. I hear every week that prices are going to level off. They are leveling off at a little higher level every week.   No, I do not.   When it comes before me, I will let you know. It isn't on my desk as yet.   A big crop will be a help in the food situation, a very decided help-I hope. But it will take some time for that to take effect. You see, these crops aren't even gathered yet, except the wheat crop. The corn crop is yet to be gathered, and it will be some time before we will know what effect that will have on the situation.   I don't know what their system of philosophy is. It isn't mine, you can rest assured on that.   You're welcome.
