 I haven't any special announcements to make, but I will try to answer questions.  
 Every day since he has been down there.  1 The sixth session of the Council of Foreign Ministers was held in Paris from May 23 to June 20, 1949. The announced purpose of the meeting was to hold discussions on the situation with regard to Germany.  For the statement by the President reporting on the Paris meeting, see Item 136. 
 I can't answer that question. I am not present. 
 No. I get messages from him every day, and he usually gets one from me every day. I haven't talked with him by teletype or over the phone, but I have been in touch with him every day.  
 No, I haven't seen him yet. He is coming to see me, but I haven't seen him yet.  
 Let me see-- 
 North Carolina politics, I think, is what was discussed--an effort on their part to get me to pay a visit to North Carolina.  2 James A. Gray, chairman of the Reynolds Tobacco Company. 
 I hope so. 
 Here is another North Carolinian over here, 3  in the same frame of mind.  3 Jonathan Daniels, Secretary to the President during the Roosevelt administration. 
 That was in the conversation also. He expressed his gratitude for the appointment of his nephew.  
 No. I have nothing to say.  4 This has reference to the differences of opinion between the armed services over appropriations. The Air Force desired an increase in appropriations in order to enlarge the B-36 procurement program. The Navy wanted to carry on the work on their "super" carrier program.  From August 9 through October 5, 1949, hearings were held before the House Committee on Armed Services on H. Res. 234, a resolution authorizing and directing thorough studies and investigations relating to matters involving the B-36 bombers. The hearings were published by the Government Printing Office .  
 Just a natural desire for headlines, principally.   
 I have no comment on that.  5 See Item 112 . 
 I don't care to comment on that. We will wait until they get through and see what sort of report they make. It will speak for itself.  
 No. Mr. Douglas has agreed to stay. He has recovered from his eye injury, and he is going to stay there.  
 No. No, I haven't.  
 Yes. My opinion hasn't changed a bit. It is expressed as strongly as I can make it.  
 I didn't know he was in the country until I saw it in the paper.  
 You mean Senator Johnson? 6   6 Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas. 
 The general legislative program and situation in the Senate with regard to certain bills that are pending down there.  
 Because he couldn't take it. His job had him tied up so he couldn't accept it for 9 months to come, and we couldn't wait that long. 7   7 On June 7 Gordon Gray was nominated as Secretary of the Army. He was confirmed by the Senate on June 9 and was sworn in on June 20.  
 No, I don't. John L. Lewis is another headline hunter.   
 Yes, I do. I think they have discovered that there are a lot of physicians that are not in sympathy with Mr. Fishbein--Dr. Fishbein, I should say.  
 No.  8  The President's Midyear Economic Report  states that a moderate downward trend characterized most phases of economic activity in the first half of 1949. "The unemployed were 6 percent of the civilian labor force in June, compared with 3.4 percent in June of last year. The number of unemployed in June was 3.8 million, and acute unemployment problems have developed in certain localities."  
 He stated the case exactly, when he went out of here, for which I was thankful--they hardly ever do that.  
 Well, when he came in and talked with me, he decided on his own volition that the best place for him to go was to the Congress, and that it is where he went.  
 Well now, I suggest that you read the Constitution of the United States, and you will find out just exactly who has the powers to declare war. It is set out there without any chance of misconstruing it. It hasn't had to be taken to the Supreme Court.  
 No. No. I didn't see Secretary Johnson today. 
 No, I haven't.  
 No, I can't. You'll have to wait and see what happens. I asked for continued aid to Korea on the European recovery program plan, which I hope the Congress will give us.  
 I can't answer that, until we are faced with it.  This is not supposed to be a strike. I understand that it is some sort of special sit-down so that the coal surplus can be used up and they will be in a better bargaining position on the 30th of June. That is my understanding of the program. It isn't a strike, so I am told.  
 It's a rest!  
 I have already proposed it. 
 I don't know. I am talking to the Interior Department about it, and with the Missouri representatives from St. Louis County on the subject. I think it ought to be, in connection with that Jefferson Park, a national monument.  
 Well now, the teachers know more about that situation than I do. I don't think that anybody ought to be employed as instructors for the young people of this country who believes in the destruction of our form of government.  
 I think the poll tax can be abolished otherwise. A constitutional amendment is just an effort to prolong the agony. 
 Somebody wanted to ask a question.   
 I regard it just as pressing as any other legislative program that fits in with the Democratic platform, which we promised to carry out.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
