  Well, I'm going to make Fred Vinson Chief Justice of the United States; and John L.--W. Snyder Secretary of the Treasury; and John L. Sullivan Under Secretary of the Navy.  
 Under Secretary of the Navy.  That's a good fighting name, isn't it? 
 Right now.  
 Yes, it was a very pleasant lunch--[ laughter ]. 
 Wait until I answer this question. I think I can truthfully say that a good time was had by all.   
 That office will come to its termination. 
 It will come to its termination. I didn't say it would end it, because it's going to take some time to do it. 
 Well, whatever is necessary to be carried on in that office will be carried on by the men there. 
 Yes, they will keep on. 
 Mr. Bowles will continue with his job as he now has it. 
 I haven't the slightest idea. It will have just to work out as quickly as it can. Never can tell. I have prophesied its termination two or three times before, and we have had to continue them, so I am not making any prophecy in regard to that.  
 About an hour and a half ago. 
 Right off the griddle.  
 That is not true, because I am analyzing the Case bill myself now, and I am having reports from the various interested departments, and when those are all before me, and I have them properly digested, I will make up my mind on the Case bill.  
 The Pittsburgh ball club goes on strike? 
 Well, I want to say to you that if those ball fellows go on strike, and I have to take them over, I'll have two damn good teams in St. Louis!   
 Oh--no--about the usual amount on a piece of legislation of that kind. I am used to that kind of stuff. That doesn't have any effect on me. I used to get them thirty thousand at a time when I was in the Senate.  
 I have no comment on that.  
 I have been trying to name it, but it has been almost impossible to get anybody to work on it. As soon as I can find the people that will take it over to say they are going to do it, I will have that done. I have been working on it right along. 1  1 For appointments to the committee , see Items 177  and 183.  
 No.  
 We have made such a recommendation to Great Britain, but there are certain details and obstacles which have to be overcome before any such arrangement can be made, in the case of housing, transportation, and a lot of other things. The Secretary of State and the Foreign Minister of Great Britain are in conversation now on that subject.  
 If it is necessary, in order to get farm machinery, we will take them over. I hope we won't have to take them over. I like always to see those things settled without the Government interfering.  
 No. That is being worked out by the Department of Labor. 
 I have made my statement on that. It still stands.  
 I favor the bill as it passed the House, just as I told you last week.  
 I haven't talked to Ambassador Kirk at all. I haven't had any conversation at all. This is news to me. Where did you get it, from the State Department ? I have never heard of it.  
 Well, it was announced at the time. It has been 5 or 6 months ago.  
 I don't know what that action was. 
 I will take care of that when it comes before me. I can't make any comment before the bill comes up here, because I don't know what's in it.  
 No. There are a lot of assistant aides over there. We had dozens of them that worked today on the luncheon. 
 Naval aide is all I have. I have one naval aide. And he has an the assistance that is necessary, and when we have a social affair they work on it.  
 I can't answer that question. 
 I think he said he would stay as long as I wanted him. And I want him to stay. That is as strong as I can make it.  
 I am working on that now, and at the proper time I will write a directive to the Army and the Navy, and you shall have a copy of it.  
 Will you state that again, Bob, 1  I didn't get it.  1 Robert G. Nixon of International News Service. 
 That's right. 
 Not all of them, but most of them are.  
 Oh no--oh no. I can't do it without legislation. 
 The directive will cover the instructions to the Army and Navy on what the President's policy is, and that they are expected to get behind it. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
