  By memorandum on May 6  the President prescribed a policy to effectuate the maximum utilization of the facilities of the domestic airline companies in the prosecution of the war. It now seems desirable that the policy prescribed in the memorandum be terminated. Accordingly, the War Department need no longer follow the policy except with respect to paragraph 6 of the memorandum concerning priorities for air transportation which shall be followed until October 15.  That means that all priorities in air travel will be removed by October 15.   I want to announce the appointment of the Honorable Paul V. McNutt as United States High Commissioner to the Philippines. Mr. McNutt served as High Commissioner to the Philippines from 1937 to 1939. He was succeeded by Francis B. Sayre, who resigned in 1942. The High Commissioner is the representative of the President of the United States in the Philippines. Since September 16, after the withdrawal from Corregidor, the Secretary of the Interior has been handling the affairs without the help of a High Commissioner. Now it is desirable and necessary to appoint a High Commissioner so that all the activities of the United States Government in the rehabilitation of the Philippines can be coordinated and handled for the best interests of the Philippine Islands.   As soon as he can qualify. His name went up to the Senate today.   The Philippines only. That's the only place we have a right to appoint a High Commissioner, and that is to expedite the things that are necessary to be done to help the Philippines to recover their position so that they can have independence as quickly as possible. That's all I have; if you have any questions   I didn't understand the question.   Yes, he was, and that will be a part of his job to implement the findings of that commission and whatever else is necessary to be done to put the Philippines on its feet. There is certain legislation pending in the Congress which is necessary to be passed to have that object carried out, and we have to have a High Commissioner in the Philippines.    No, I am not familiar with what the Navy's proposal was. As I said in the speech after the Potsdam conference, we expect, by negotiation and otherwise, to occupy the necessary bases there for the peace of the world and for our own welfare in the Pacific Ocean and elsewhere.   I have not studied it, but if it is necessary to have one on Okinawa, I think we can negotiate so we can have it.    Somebody knows more than I do, then.  I haven't yet made up my mind on an appointment for that vacancy.   I saw that in the paper, too; that is most interesting.   I have no comment now. When I am ready to make those appointments I will announce them to you, but there'll be a lot more rumors before they are announced.     That's what the law requires. It is for the Philippines only. He has nothing to do with the other parts of the Pacific Ocean. There are other things that will have to be done from the peace table.    Yes, I can; they are going there to investigate the surplus property proposition, to see how much can be turned over through UNRRA to the countries on a starvation basis.    The only thing I hope is that it will get at the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.   I took the reports as they were given. They satisfied me, but apparently they did not satisfy everybody.    He has decided not to accept it.   Yes, I wanted him to be judge of the court to try war criminals.   No, the international military tribunal to try war criminals. He decided not to accept.    I haven't thought about it.   No, I don't, but I would have to look into it.    Congress will have the right of access to all the testimony there is available.    I could tell you if I were going to submit a guess to Congress tomorrow, but it can't be submitted until we have the information about the military needs. I am not going to guess at it. When it comes time for the budget estimates I will have them ready.    I am considering it.   I can't tell you now, but I think I will be in a position in a few days to announce it. I will give you all the facts then.   It is not.    I have nothing to say about that at the present time.   I think he is probably reaching the retirement age; if he is, he will have a successor. That is a regular Army routing matter.   No, I can't at the present time.   You are entirely welcome.
