  I have a most interesting letter which I would like to read to you this morning, from the famous Dean of Canterbury, Mr. Hewlett Johnson. He says: "My dear Mr. President:"-- This is dated 31st of January, 1946  --"May I categorically deny a statement, which I understand has appeared in the American press, that I regarded America as 100 years behind in everything save religion and 150 years behind in that."  "That statement, which is of course ridiculous, was made in a jocular mood by my predecessor."   "I neither endorsed such a statement, nor do I think it is true.  "I believe and constantly affirm that America leads the world in industrial adventure, activity and achievement. Indeed, I am accused in England of over-enthusiasm for America's achievement.  "I am convinced that we in Europe have rich lessons to learn from America, especially in enterprise and the arts of production.  "I believe also that America may learn in the future from some European experiments in distribution and planned economy.  "I only write because had such a statement really been made by me, it would have shown the most gross ingratitude for the over-abundant kindness I received from you and your countrymen."  If anybody wants a copy of that letter, we will furnish it.   Now to get down to serious things, I am particularly interested in this food situation. In most of the wheat-producing countries of the world, outside of the United States and Canada, there has been almost a total crop failure in wheat. Australia's crop is a failure. South Africa had a drought. All Europe suffered from a drought, so far as the wheat situation is concerned. And in the far East, the production of rice in India is from 12 to 15 percent short of the usual crop, and they are always an importing country on that part of their food, and they import from Burma and Siam and Indochina. Those countries' rice crops are, of course, a total failure on account of the fact that they have--were in this war situation, and they also have had adverse weather conditions along with the war situation. The Japanese crop, I am informed, is 15 percent short of normal, and they import usually 15 percent of their rice for food.  It is proposed under this program which we have inaugurated, that we hope to be able to ship 6 million tons of wheat in the first half of 1946. Now, if anybody needs a lesson in arithmetic, that is about 200 million bushels. The measures ordered should make it possible for us to come closer to what we want to do by about 500,000 or a million tons.  Wheat and other food products which we plan to export during the first 6 months of this year will provide 50 million people with a diet of 2,000 calories a day, or 100 million with 1,000 calories a day for a 6 months' period.  Now, some of the people in the devastated countries of Europe are living on much less than 1,500 calories a day. We eat about 3,300 here in the United States. The situation is so serious that we felt it was absolutely essential to take every measure possible to help keep the people in these countries from starving; because in those countries which are our friends and allies, they are not to blame for the situation.  And in enemy countries we can't afford to see our enemies starve, even if they did bring this situation on themselves. We can't do that and live according to our own ideals.  We have asked Canada and Australia, and all the countries which are supposed to have surplus foods, to join us in this program; and I think every one of them will.  If you want a copy of these figures and things, Mr. Ayers will be able to furnish them to you after the conference. 
 I hope not. If the packing plants can run at full blast, it will not be necessary. If it becomes necessary, in order to keep 10 or 15 million people from starving to death, I think we ought to do it. 
 That is substantially the statement that was issued yesterday as adopted by the Cabinet as a whole. 
 That's right. 
 There will probably have to be a cut in the whole European ration. There is a cut in the whole European ration now. That is what we are trying to meet. We are trying our best to meet the thing on as equitable a basis as we possibly can. 
 No, we are not. That is what we are trying to prevent. We are not going to do that. We are going to take care of our allies first. That figure is in Poland and Germany, principally. 
 Poland and Germany. But we certainly are not going to treat our allies worse than our enemies, you can be assured of that. 
 I don't know. I don't know enough about the milling business to answer the question. 
 I am not familiar with it, if there is. 
 That's the point exactly. And I think we will get their cooperation-I don't think there will be anybody who isn't anxious to keep people from starving to death. It's un-American, I think, to have the idea to let people starve. 
 Yes. I think every phase has been gone into by the agricultural experts.
 I can't give you an answer to that. We hope that this situation will work out. The reports that have been made indicate that everybody seems to think it answers the purpose. 
 Yes. Make contributions, just like they would clothing and everything else. I think they will do that. I think they will be pleased to do that. 
 UNRRA will handle most of it. 
 No. There is, I think, a slight decrease in our first commitments. You will have to get those figures categorically from the Secretary of Agriculture, who has been the conferee with our allies in this setup. 
 About--between 25 and 50 million bushels. 
 I don't think there will be any short liquidation of livestock. Livestock will be slaughtered at a lighter weight than they ordinarily would. And 225-pound hogs will, I think, make just as good eating as 300-pound ones; and I used to raise them.
 I am not. I am backing Mr. Pauley. I think Mr. Pauley is an honest man, and I don't think he is the only honest man in Washington or in the oil business. 
 I think he is a very capable administrator, because he was the Reparations Director up until just recently and did a magnificent job in that, and I have the utmost confidence in him. 
 No, he did not. I didn't discuss it with him. 
 No, he did not. I didn't discuss Mr. Ickes with Mr. Flynn. He was discussing other matters. 
 It was political matters in the State of New York.  
 I don't think so. Mr. Ickes can very well be mistaken the same as the rest of us.  
 I hope to be able to make a complete statement on that in a day or two. I can't do it now. 
 I don't think so. 
 I hope so. 
 I haven't discussed the matter with either one, up to the present time. 
 I don't think so. They are working on it. That's what they are working--it will all be worked out. 
 No, it isn't. It's a working out of the situation we are faced with now, and I think it will be worked out in a very satisfactory manner. 
 I hope in the next day or two. 
 Here is the situation that we are trying to meet: We are all aware of the fact that what we need is production. We know that if we get production--mass production--on the basis that we are capable of putting out here in this country, that the situation will adjust itself; and whenever that situation comes about there will be no reason for a wage-price formula, for that will adjust itself.  And that is exactly what we have been working for, ever since V-J Day. That was the reason for the first directive on a wage price formula. It was my hope that we would, as soon as possible, begin working just as hard as we could to create production to meet the demand that has now piled up as a result of the war.  We have had some stumbling blocks. We are trying to meet those stumbling blocks now. The first wage-price formula would have worked, if we had been able to arrive at the production we were hoping we were going to get.  
 I am still going to Florida. 
 I can still do business by telephone.  
 That's right. They recommended 
 They recommended that Hawaii ought to have statehood. 
 That's right. I think they were--they are in favor of that very thing. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. THE PRESIDENT, All right.
