  Well, the first thing I want to tell you about is that I called Mr. Hull yesterday, and asked him to go to San Francisco with me for the closing of the conference, whenever that takes place. And he said he would like very much to go, but he thought it would be too strenuous a trip to be the first thing he would do after he gets right out of the hospital.  I wish he could have come. I wish he could go.   I sent down the name of former Governor William H. Wills-W-i-l-1-s--of Vermont to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission. He will succeed Norman S. Case, whose term expires on June 30. It's just a case of one Republican taking the place of another.  Vermont is surely a Republican State, so they couldn't accuse me of playing politics up there.    I have another announcement I think I ought to make--it has already been announced--but John Snyder put a draft on Ed McKim to get him away from me for a special job, and I guess I'll have to let him go for the time being. \. No. He is going over to the office over here. He will probably have to go out of the city for some special reason if Mr. Snyder wants him to, but his headquarters will be here.   I wanted to say a word about the Office of War Information. "In my judgment, the things being done by the Office of War Information need to be done, in the interest of a nation still fighting a war which is far from over, and which the people need to know is far from over. OWI's work in both the domestic and the foreign field is now being performed by a trained, integrated, and experienced organization. To abolish some of its major functions, while the war is on, would be a mistake. It would be equally a mistake to attempt a hurried redistribution of those functions among other agencies which are not now trained or equipped to undertake them."  I am hoping that the Congress will restore the budget estimate for that organization.   For the parade on the day that we welcome General Eisenbower, I have indicated that the departments and agencies may, in their discretion, permit employees whose services can be spared to leave work without charge of annual leave for such period as may be necessary for the purpose of participating in the city's welcoming of General Eisenhower between the hours of 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.  I don't think we could do too much to show our appreciation of General Eisenhower. That's the reason for that arrangement.   Now, the thing that you are somewhat interested in, I think, is Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Davies. They both returned, and I just want to say a short word as to the background for that, and then you can ask me questions, and I will answer them if I am able to.  "In order to secure an interchange of views more satisfactorily and quickly than by cable, I sent Mr. Hopkins to Moscow and Mr. Davies to London. Their discussions covered the arrangements for the time and place of the meeting of Prime Minister Churchill" \.--"of Prime Minister Churchill, Marshal Stalin, and myself, as to what would be most convenient for all three." Ready for me? \. "Since their return, Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Davies have made their reports to me. The results have been completely satisfactory and gratifying.  "The all important thing which confronts us is that the unity, mutual confidence, and respect which resulted in the military victory should be continued to make secure a just and durable peace." \. The last paragraph? \. "The all important thing which confronts us is that the unity, mutual confidence, and respect which resulted in the military victory should be continued to make secure a just and durable peace."  In other words, Mr. Churchill, Mr. Stalin, and the President of the United States must be able to meet and talk and trust each other, in that we want to believe that each of us wants a just and durable peace. That is one of the reasons for the preliminary visits of Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Davies with those two gentlemen. \. It has, but I can't announce it, and won't, until we arrive there. \. Yes. \. The Polish situation, yes. \. No. I hadn't heard that.  1 On June 12 the White House released a statement listing the representatives of the Polish Provisional Government and Polish democratic leaders in Poland and abroad who had been Invited to Moscow for consultations concerning the reorganization of the Provisional Government of Poland on a broader democratic basis. The statement, issued simultaneously in Washington. London, and Moscow, is published in the Department of State Bulletin . \. I will. That was one of the things that I sent Mr. Hopkins to Moscow for, and conversations were had on that subject. No conclusions have as yet been reached, but every effort is being made in behalf of those 16 Poles by both the American Government and the British Government. \. That position has been modified, let us say, and I think that we are on a road to a complete settlement; but I want to make no statements that will in any way embarrass the Russian Government. \. At least, we are in a much better position now than we were before Mr. Hopkins went to Moscow, and Mr. Davies went to London. \. That matter had not been discussed with the Russian Government. \. I don't know what effect it had. \. Mr. Pauley set out the position which he was instructed to take when he left here. What was your question here? \. Yes, he will. \. Yes. \. Admiral Leahy will, also. \. So will Secretary Stettinius. \. I hadn't talked to Mr. Davies about it until his health permits. I may ask him to go. He hasn't been well, nor Mr. Hopkins, so that is contingent on both their physical conditions. \. I do not. \. I Can't name the others. All the Combined Chiefs of Staff will be there, I can say that much. \. Yes, that is correct. \. That is correct. \. That is correct. \. Well, it will not be public, such as this one is.  There will be no reporters or press conferences at that meeting. \. No, there will not be. \. Yes. All our members will be there. I can't speak for the other countries, but I guess \. I don't want to answer any questions in regard to that trip. \. No. There has been no change in the American policy. There has been a very pleasant yielding on the part of the Russians to some of the things in which we are interested, and I think if we keep our heads and be patient, we will arrive at a conclusion; because the Russians are just as anxious to get along with us as we are with them. And I think they have showed it very conclusively in these last conversations. \. Tony, 1  you had better ask Mr. Stalin about that.   1 Ernest B. Vattaro of the Associated Press. \. That is up to him. If he wants it, he will be there. \. That will not be done. I think the American reporters will be given an exactly equal chance with all the rest, but these conferences can't be held in the limelight because we are trying to get ready for a peace conference, \.--and that is my objective. \. With everything that I am capable of doing, I will see that that does not happen this time, if I can prevent it. \. He will, that is certain. \. Nothing new. Status hasn't changed.  \. lust keep on asking. He is going to the conference.  \. We are still recognizing the London Polish Government.  \. That didn't start here.   \. If the Government of Unity, I believe they call it, in Poland is set up and agreed to by the British Government, and the United States Government, and the Russian Government, the London Government will go out of existence. \. Yes, it does. \. Isn't that the purpose of the meeting that is being held on Friday--to set up this government? That's right. That's correct.  \. What is my position on what ? \. Well, that matter of punishment will have to be assessed by the trial courts and the prosecutors. I am not in a position to say what their punishment should be. That would be judging them in advance, and they have not been tried.  \. Yes, I think it did. It did. Categorically, it did.  \. The only comment I have to make is that I am sincerely hopeful that the House will give the House itself a chance--the Rules Committee will give the House a chance to vote on this question. That is what we are asking.  \. I am going to let Mr. Hopkins speak for himself on that. I think he was misquoted.   \. What? \. It's a bad amendment, and I hope the House will throw it out.  \. Well, this is not a government now, and they are being asked to join a conference in Moscow, to set up a government. Then, unless they agree, there won't be any government set up. So that, I think, answers your question ? \. I hope so. That is the reason for setting it up.  \. We are exploring--we are working on that now.  \. No, no. I said if they did not agree after they got there. They're going. Don't you worry about that. They're going.  \. No. Don't get this thing tangled up now. What we are trying to do is to get the situation worked out that has been causing us a lot of embarrassment. And for God's sake, don't you go muddying it all up so as to make it worse! We have made arrangements so that all these factions can get together, the present Polish Government, the people in Poland who are not in the Polish Government, and the people in London, to see if they can't sit down and work out a government that will be satisfactory to Poland. Now, that's what this conference is for. We have succeeded in getting that far. But don't upset the applecart. Say we have made some progress and that I believe that we can get results that will do what we want, which is a free Polish Government. \. That is true.  Voices from the back of the room: Thank you, Mr. President.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.   THE PRESIDENT. You're entirely welcome. Note: President Truman's twelfth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:35 a.m. on Wednesday, June 13, 1945. The White House Official Reporter noted that Senator Green of Rhode Island was a guest at this conference. 
