  I want to announce the reappointment of Clarence Young to the Civil Aeronautics Board this morning.   And, I am having prepared a statement on the present situation with regard to the budget and the order which was made in August, which will be ready for distribution before the day is over. 1 That's the only announcements I have.  1 See Items 187, 194, 195, and 238.    Both so absurd I have no comment to make.   Too absurd to comment on it.    That action has already been taken, I think.   Yes, I think it's accepted. He is going to be Senator from Rhode Island. He can't hold two jobs?  2     2  The President's letter accepting Mr. McGrath's resignation, effective at the close of business on October 7, was released by the White House on October 25.   No, it has not.   No comment. That is in the hands of Mr. Krug.    I have no comment on that.    That was covered in the meat speech completely. If you will read that, you will get your answer.   I said read the meat speech and you will get your answer.    That is in the same category with Tom Clark and Jackson.    I have no plans to make any speeches.    I have answered that as definitely as I intend to answer it. You keep questioning me on it. I have no further comment to make on it. Read the meat speech. That will give you the answer.    No I haven't.    I didn't say I was not. I said I had no plans at the present time to make any speeches.    I shall, at a later date, issue a proclamation and let you know.     No, I have no comment to make.   No.    No.   It has not.    Mr. Krug is handling the coal situation.   I haven't looked into that particular situation, Joe, 1  but I made a statement yesterday in my speech to the United Nations which said I hoped that our immigration policy would be arranged in such a way that political prisoners could--political refugees could be taken care of and I am very sorry that those people cannot be taken care of. I hope that we can find some way to take care of them.  1 Joseph H. Short of the Baltimore Morning Sun.   Yes, I think it would.   No, it wasn't necessary when I found out he had issued it. I intended to talk to him, but is wasn't necessary.    Not that I know of.    Everybody seems to know more about that than I do. I have no intention of calling the Congress back. They have the right under their own resolution to call themselves back.    JUST as soon as I get the commissions filled I will name them.    You will have to ask Mr. porter about that. He is handling--he and Mr. Anderson are handling decontrols along the lines that were outlined in the meat speech.    I didn't discuss politics with anybody yesterday.    Well, I don't know whether it will accomplish anything or not. I have always been in favor of the vote for the District, and I hope they will eventually get it.   For home rule too.    It's contrary to the law in the State of Missouri to make a bet on the election.  I expect to vote in the State of Missouri.    I would like for the citizens of the District of Columbia to have the same rights that the citizens of the rest of the United States have. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
