  Sit down, gentlemen, please.  I am having the usual vacation press conference, and there is no significance in it whatever, although I have seen all the questions and all the answers in the Miami papers, and the local paper. I haven't had a chance to read the Washington papers much since I have been down here, but I thought due to the fact that most of the questions have been asked and carefully answered, that maybe there wouldn't be many questions from you this morning. Of course, any prognostications may be in the same line with those of September and October last year, but we can tell about that a little later.   The answers will answer themselves at a later date. You have to depend on those because you made them yourself. No--I just thought we would have the usual vacation press conference, and I will be glad to answer any questions I can, as I always do, and I am ready for questions.    I made the announcement of the train ride, if you remember, on the 24th of February, and no details have as yet been worked out. You will be notified in plenty of time to get your trunk packed. 1     1 During the course of his address at the Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner on February 24  the President said, "I may even get on the train again and make another tour around the country. If I get on that train, I am going to tell the people how their Government is getting on. And I know how to tell them."   I am not making any statement on the subject. There is no further statement than the one that was made on the 24th of February. Can you all hear? Voices: No. No, sir.   Well, I said there were no further plans than those announced on the 24th of February.   Not necessarily.  Good morning, Mr. Davis. 2  I was over to see you yesterday, but you weren't in.  2 Elmer Davis of the American Broadcasting Company.   Were you? I didn't see you. I'm sorry.    No comment on that.    Well, I can tell you more about that at a later date. I can't comment on it now, because the matter hasn't reached the conclusion.    Well, it might be construed that way. We had a three party system in the last campaign.   I still have that hope. I think most of them are fundamentally all right. Sometimes they get excited. And you must remember that this is a new Congress, that it had some difficulty in getting adjusted, on account of the fact that there had to be an inauguration ceremony 3 weeks after they met, and they are just practically a month behind in getting started. I think we ought to give the Congress a chance to act, before we comment on what they may do. Nobody knows.    No comment. He is in the Congress and I am not. I only advise the Congress on what I think is good for the country. Then they agree as they see fit. We have three independent prongs to the Government of the United States--executive, legislative, and judicial. And neither of the others ought to interfere with the duties of the other two.   Hasn't that always been the case? It has ever since I have been in the Congress. I don't think that's anything new.    Republicans, Democrats, and Dixiecrats. I don't see why you have to have that identified for you.    I have heard nothing about it, but I think it is a little early to talk about a special session, when the regular session hasn't really got started yet.    Of course they are not. Of course they are not good Democrats.   Ask Bob LaFollette. He buried them.    No, I think it has no significance in that regard at all.    I never comment on legislation that is not before me on the desk, and that hasn't been passed by the Congress as yet.   Well, that's a matter for argument. It hasn't come up to me yet.    Yes, I will tell you exactly what my plans are. On tomorrow night I think I have to appear at a White House Photographers' dinner. On Monday morning I shall have a session with the "Big Four" as usual, and probably a conference with the Cabinet during the day--not a regular Cabinet meeting but a conference. And for the rest of the week I will probably be signing documents and seeing those people who are interested in talking to the President on matters that are now pending before the Congress. It will be the usual week's work. Probably doubled up a little bit.    The program has been sent to the Congress, and the action of the Congress we can only anticipate and comment on--we can only anticipate the action of the Congress, and I can't comment on it until the Congress is finished.   I sent my message to the Congress which conveyed exactly what I hoped to accomplish. Hasn't changed any. I think we are going to accomplish the program.    Wonderfully well--wonderfully well. Wonderfully well. I am holding my own.   176--bedside weight.     Not that I know of at the present time. I have been in touch with the leaders in Congress all the time since I have been down here. They call this a vacation. It's just a change of scenery with the usual amount of work. Of course, I don't have the appointments and the people coming to see me every day as I do when I am in the White House. That's the only difference. There isn't any difference as far as the work of the President is concerned. I sign just as many documents and read just as many records and carry on the business of the Government as usual. It's only a change of scenery and getting a little sunlight. I understand it's very cold in Washington--snowed up there the other day.    I don't know about it. I didn't even know he was going.  3 Edward Jacobson was a military associate of Mr. Truman's during World War I, and subsequently went into partnership with him in the haberdashery business in Kansas City, Mo. The partnership lasted from 1919 until 1922.   Ed Jacobson.    Mr. Winston Churchill is coming down to Washington to have lunch--dinner with me. It hasn't been arranged, so I don't know anything about any social affairs at the British Embassy.   I didn't know anything about it.   Lunch or dinner with me.   Hasn't been set definitely, no.   He stopped somewhere up north of here, in a private house, I think, and did some painting. But I don't think he has ever been to Key West, I am sorry to say. I think if he would ever come here, he wouldn't leave. I hate to leave. I have tried to find some excuse to stay over another week, but I can't postpone that Photographers' dinner very well.   Well, I think that expresses it pretty well.    Well, we'll have to wait and see about that.   So I have been told--  --but I have never felt like risking it.   That's what they say about Washington, but sometimes it does.   Mr. Ross: You might say that this is a regular White House press conference and the regular rules apply.   You tell them.  Mr. Ross: This is a regular White House conference, and the same rules apply that always apply in the White House as to quotes.   The President's remarks are supposed to be paraphrased, not quoted directly.   I thought everybody knew. But Charlie wanted to be sure, and he is right.   Well, you haven't worn me out by any means, and I have been on the receiving end.    All right.  I hope you have all had a good vacation.   I wish I could have been at that party last night. It kept me awake until 2 o'clock.   You see, I sleep up here on the northeast corner, and I had to get up and shut the windows.   I say it must have been a grand party. I am glad you are all having a good time.   I am awfully happy that you are having a good time.
