  I have one announcement to make. Adm. Louis E. Denfeld will be Chief of Naval Operations--I have two announcements to make. The other one is the appointment by Executive order  1  of the National Security Resources Board, which is made up as follows: of the Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Interior--Agriculture--Commerce-and Labor; and you will receive a mimeographed sheet on that as you go out.  1 Executive Order 9905 "Designating the membership of the National Security Resources Board and defining the functions, duties, and authority of the Chairman of the Board" .  That's all the announcements I have, gentlemen. 
 He is the Commanding Officer in command of the Pacific Fleet, and I don't know when he will take office. I think Admiral Nimitz wants to get away as soon as possible.  
 IS that so ? Well, I think you will have to have eggs for eggnogs at Christmas.   
 The Budget Director has never said anything about resigning and has never discussed it, and he is not going to resign; and that's positive and final.  
 NO, there is not. I do not have that under consideration at all.  2  Ninth International Conference of American States.  
 No, I haven't. I would be glad to discuss it with him if he decided he wanted to talk to me about it. 
 I will say that to him.   
 NO I am not. Whenever we are ready I will make that announcement.  
 I will make that announcement at a later date.  
 I hadn't thought about it, but we may think about it at a later date. Not now.  
 No comment.  1  In December 1946 the President sent Paul A. Porter to Greece as head of an economic mission. At the time Mr. Porter was Price Administrator.  
 I would like to go, but I can make no firm appointments now, because of this special session coming on next Monday. 
 I say I wish I could go, but I can make no appointments.  
 Well, that undoubtedly will be put up to me when we begin preparing the Message on the State of the Union. I haven't given it any consideration. All I know is what I read in the paper.  
 I hadn't heard about it. But they are good. They have got plenty of money. 
 I do. I didn't think they would need to borrow any money. I remember one time they had 600 million in gold on deposit in the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. I don't know whether they have still got it or not. 
 NO. It's under consideration. No decision has been arrived at as yet.  
 Of course. That's what you have to do.  
 I will answer that question in the Message on the State of the Union. I am not ready to answer it at the present time.  
 Not immediately, no. 
 No comment. I think the Evening Star has a cartoon that comments very favorably on that.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
