 Well, I've got a telegram I will read to you. Is everybody in?  Mr. Early: Yes, sir.    This is dated Miami, Florida, April 19, addressed to me here.  "Dear Mr. President: Some time ago, you made an appeal--  Voices: Little slower--slow!  Mr. Early: You will get copies of it later.   I will read it to you first. Then I will see that you get copies.   "Dear Mr. President: Some time ago you made an appeal to me which I think I responded to at the moment in good spirit. Now I am going to make an appeal to you. Please let us have Leonard Reinsch back. When we gave our consent we were not sufficiently mindful of the tremendous tasks ahead of us in radio in connection with Television, Frequency Modulation and what not. On special occasions for your personal uses his services could be availed of without embarrassment to us. It might not seem a patriotic impulse which prompts this message, and yet I am sure on reflection you will see it is justified. Kindest regards, James M. Cox."  And he is my friend. I think he will do anything in the world for me, so as to make Leonard available to me for the radio jobs that he has always done. Leonard will be on call just as Jimmy Byrnes is for anything that I want. And I am going to comply with Governor Cox's request.   And the reason I am calling you in to give this to you is because I called in Charlie Ross last night after this happened, and Charlie agreed to come with me after this San Francisco Conference, on May 15th.  Then Charlie and I got sentimental, and called up our old schoolteacher in Independence last night, and I am afraid that there is a leak in Independence--[laughter]--and Charlie also called up his son. I didn't want you fellows to be scooped on it, so that's why I am doing this.   He and I called her together. She is the only schoolteacher that is living, and so we called her up. We used to go to school together. I asked Mr. Pulitzer to give Charlie 2 years' leave, and Mr. Pulitzer very kindly complied with that; and I hope he won't do the same to me that has happened here. I hope not. He said he wouldn't.   Miss Tilly Brown. Matilda Brown. We always called her Tilly. Matilda--M-a-t-i-l-d-a--Brown. We always called her Tilly.   At Independence.   Well, I don't think she would object to her age being told--[laughter]--but I don't know. She is somewhere between 75 and 80.   High school. She taught Charlie and me English.   Charlie and I graduated in the same high school class.   1901. Do your own figuring.  That covers everything, doesn't it?   Oh, yes. I almost forgot something. Jonathan  has agreed to stay with me. He is going to stay with me until Charlie comes. Does that take care of everything? I am appreciative of that, too, just as I am of all these things; and I am exceedingly happy to have these people on call when I need them.   At his convenience. The telegram is specific.   Yes.    They have no foundation in fact.   Les is literally of much more use to me as Secretary to the Senate than he would be down here at the White House--much more use to the Senate. I don't want to cripple the Senate by taking Les Biffle away from them.  What did you start to say?   Oh, that is--no argument--[inaudible words]--only in fun. Don't quote that, though. There was never any thought on my part that Biffle be brought down here.   No. I wouldn't say there was no kidding--[inaudible words]--Barkley, you know, and I like to rib each other. I was worrying him a little bit, and he was trying to worry me.   Biffle? They don't make them any better than Biffle. And you can quote me on that.   Press Secretary. Reporter: Thank you, sir.
