  Miss Perkins will be a member of the Civil Service Commission. She takes the place of the retiring member of the Commission, Mrs. McMillin.  And, West Executive Avenue will be opened, as soon as it is convenient.   I notice here in the Star this afternoon a piece by Robert Lewis in which he says the White House denied approval of a $60,000 carpenter shop. Now there are some improvements to the White House workshop, and that work should be made, but I had that postponed myself a month ago, because I thought the material might be needed for veterans' housing. A misapprehension in the piece.   I have got a proclamation on National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week. That proclamation is available for you as you go out, along with a statement issued by me on the same subject. Now I am ready for questions.  
 The President has already taken action to end that spiral some time ago. I think the order was dated last February. 
 Are you sure that the order is not being obeyed? I am not sure that it isn't being obeyed. 
 Well, you work it out.  
 Well now, you say the speech is to be delivered ?
 Well, I--I can't answer questions on a speech that is to be delivered. 
 Well, that's fine. I'm glad it does. What was the question ? Go ahead. Maybe I can answer it.  
 That is correct. 
 I approved the whole speech . 1  1 On September 14 at 2 p.m. the President called the newsmen into his office at the White House and read to them the following statement: "There has been a natural misunderstanding regarding the answer I made to a question asked at the Press Conference on Thursday, September twelfth, with reference to the speech of the Secretary of Commerce delivered in New York later that day. The question was answered extemporaneously and my answer did not convey the thought that I intended it to convey. "It was my intention to express the thought that I approved the right of the Secretary of Commerce to deliver the speech. I did not intend to indicate that I approved the speech as constituting a statement of the foreign policy of this country. "There has been no change in the established foreign policy of our Government. There will be no significant change in that policy without discussion and conference among the President, the Secretary of State, and Congressional leaders." 
 No. I have--I was getting advice from Mr. Fitzpatrick on the New York situation. I wasn't giving him advice. 
 No comment on what he said. You talk to Mr. Fitzpatrick. He can answer for himself.  
 Mr. Steelman will have a statement to issue on that within the next hour, which will be available for all of you. That will cover the situation. 
 I think that the truck situation has practically settled that situation, according to the latest headlines that I saw in the afternoon paper.  
 I am no expert, but if the percentages are to be considered, the trend is toward the Democrats.  
 Every State in the Union has asked me to make a speech in their State. 
 None of them. I don't think I will make any speeches in any particular State.  
 She will not. She will be a member of it. The Chairman is still in charge of the Civil Service Commission.  
 Yes. 
 It will not.  
 I have no plans for any speeches. The plans are still in the embryo stage. I haven't agreed to make a speech anywhere. 
 It does preclude that possibility. 
 There will be no tour. 
 That is probable. 
 Still isn't decided. What was the question back there?  
 I do not.
 They are exactly in line.  
 I still have that under consideration, but I haven't made any decision on it as yet.  
 He didn't say mildly to me. He left that qualifying word out. He said it had electrified the people. 
 That's what he said to me. 
 That's right.
 Well, I have to take his word for it. He is the Chairman for New York, therefore that is where I get my advice.  
 Why does he point that up? Did General Eisenhower's visit to Brazil point it up? Field Marshal Montgomery just made a trip here, to pay a friendly visit to this country, as Eisenhower and our admirals have been doing in South America and other countries. There was nothing, so far as I know, significant about it except a friendly gesture between two allies.  
 It won't be very long. As soon as the details can be worked out with the Commissioners and with the State Department, it will open.  
 Yes. 
 Surely.  
 It will not.  
 No, he isn't. I was asked that question once before. I have Max Gardner where I want him to stay. 
 No comment. That is a matter that has to be worked out by the State Department. 
 The gentleman back there, let him ask his first.   
 All right. Fire away.  
 Yes, I do.  
 Well now, Merriman, 1  let Mr. Steelman's statement speak for itself, and then there can't be any possible chance of a tangle. That statement will specifically state what it means.  1 Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. 
 Mr. Steelman will not talk to you until the statement is issued. 
 You can talk to him then any time you want. He is busy at the moment.  
 Let John speak for himself. 
 That is possible. That is possible. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's eightieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, September 12, 1946. 
