  I have only one announcement to make--I thought maybe you might have some questions and I would let you in--this is a letter from John Blandford to me, and my answer to him. It is mimeographed. It is his resignation as Housing Administrator, and the suggestion that he become the Budget Director for China. There are copies of that. You can get them as you go out. Now I am ready for questions.  
 That is correct. Still working on that. 
 Well, I can't give you an exact time, but there will be something on it. The announcement will be made from the White House when it is ready. 
 They are still working on that report. 
 It hasn't been finished. 
 Well, the quarter, as I understand it, ended on December 31, and they are still working on the figures. I will make the announcement when it is ready.  
 Yes. Whenever the Congress fixes the necessary responsibility, that will be done.  
 No, I can't make that announcement today. I will make it when- ever that time arrives.  
 The State Department doesn't have a policy unless I support it.  finish your question--I'm sorry. 
 I don't know anything about any preliminary decision, or whether it will be signed or won't be signed, but whatever policy the State Department has, I will support it, or it won't be a policy. The State Department carries out the policies that are laid down by the President of the United States.  
 Yes, I am--yes, I am.  
 I can't give you the exact date. It was sometime last summer, previous to the trip to Potsdam. You see, Mr. Byrnes wasn't made Secretary of State until December--July 3d, if I remember correctly, and I don't know what the exact date was that I became familiar with those documents. It was necessary for me to be familiar with them before I went to Potsdam. 
 We are not. No reason for air bases on the Kuriles.  
 I haven't seen any. I have seen none. There may be some, however, that have not yet been delivered to me.  
 I think the labor situation is improving all the time. 
 I will make that announcement at the proper time. I don't want to comment on it now. 
 I have none. 
 No further comment. I said something about it the other day. It isn't now under contemplation. 
 What was the House action on it ? 
 That was the action--not the action of the House but the action of the Rules Committee, wasn't it? The House hasn't yet acted on it, unless they voted within the last few minutes. 
 The House voted to take up the rule? They still haven't acted. 
 I have no comment on it. That's the business of the House. 
 I beg your pardon? 
 We have been working on it all the time, taking all the action we possibly can, just as speedily as we can.  
 I have no comment on that until when we make the announcement on that--on what has been done. 
 No, it was not supposed to be made tomorrow. When the figures haven't all been available until just right in the immediate past, we can't expect to arrive at a conclusion in 1 day when it takes a little longer than that to get all the facts. 
 I can't answer that 
 --they might fool me and bring it in tomorrow.  
 I haven't discussed it with him.  
 It never was lost. That Yalta agreement has been filed in the private files of the President of the United States. It has been there all the time, and I knew where it was all the time. 
 The State Department is inquiring of Moscow and London if they have any objections to its being made public, and if they have no objections the Secretary of State will make it public. It is a State Department document.  
 Yes. He came to talk to me as the--I think I am the "titulary"-whatever that proper word is--[laughter]for the head of the Smithsonian Institution, and Judge Stone is the executive officer of that organization, and he came to talk to me about a meeting in August with regard to the Smithsonian Institution. He wanted me to make a speech at that meeting. 
 The Supreme Court was not discussed.  
 Yes, sir. I have given a great deal of thought to that. Well, Mr. Harriman has been trying to quit ever since Germany folded up. 
 I have offered the job to nobody. I have offered the job to nobody-just discussed it with Mr. Harriman and the Secretary of State.  
 The only comment I have to make on it is that you can't do it, unless you want wild inflation. 
 Wild inflation.  
 It is an agreement signed by Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill and Mr. Stalin, just the same as the one at potsdam was signed by myself and Mr. Attlee and Mr. Stalin. 
 I can't answer that. I can't answer that. There are agreements signed in that way at all of these meetings. I think most of them have been made public. If any of them haven't been made public, at the proper time they will be made public.  These were wartime agreements made in an effort to arrive at agreements with our allies, to use the forces of ourselves and our allies to the best advantage to win the war. That is what this Yalta agreement was.  
 No, I haven't. I haven't read the article. That is a matter for the Congress to settle. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right.
