 Please be seated.  I have no announcements, so you are free to ask questions.    Not based on fact. The General knew it.    I can't answer that. I am not ready yet. I told you when the time came I would let you know exactly what I was going to do.   I have made up my mind, but I am not going to tell you what I am going to do until I get ready.   Yes.   I am against--I say I am against sin, too!    Well, that is the judgment of every candidate, and I wouldn't try to inform any other candidates when or how they ought to announce.   I will answer that question when I make my announcement.   Well, there are always plenty of candidates. There will be no dearth of candidates. And of course, I am sorry to say, they don't understand what they are getting into or they wouldn't be candidates.    Well, I told you I would answer that question when--    I have no comment on that situation, because I have not been able to consider successors to Mr. Boyle. You see, the national committee will not meet until October 31st, and we will have plenty of time to think about that. 1  1 William M. Boyle, Jr., chairman of the Democratic National Committee, informed the President of his wish to resign in a letter submitted to President Truman on October 9, 1951.   Well, that is what you think. I didn't say that.     Yes, I looked it up. Not only looked it up but I sent him a copy of it, at his request.  2 See Item 251 .   I wish I had brought it over so I could read it to you. I thought he read it yesterday ?   Senator Taft read it to you at the Press Club, and I hope he read my reply.  I told him that I appreciated it then, I appreciated it now, and I understood that he had thrown his hat in the ring and he was going to have a lot of fun from now on.     I have had it under consideration. Had a meeting and a discussion on it, and I think it has merit; but I haven't made up my mind on what the action ought to be.    I will attend to that in the Message on the State of the Union.    No, I have not, Bob, 3  I will make it when it's politically expedient.  3  Robert G. Nixon of International News Service.   I will be the sole judge.   Well --  --everybody's entitled to his own thoughts on the subject, but I will reserve the right to do as I please on the subject, Robert.   No.   It was ?  Oh yes. I remember when they were in.    I haven't asked anybody to interfere with the tax bill. I asked for a $10 billion tax assessment. I am trying my best to get a tax bill that will meet the situation with which we are faced. I am not talking to anybody but Members of Congress about it.    Mr. Wallace is speaking for himself before a Senate committee this morning. He will answer that, and he will tell the truth.  4 "The Forrestal Diaries," edited by Waiter Millis with collaboration of E. S. Duffield, New York, Viking Press, 1951.    Yes, when I get around to it. He didn't write me the letter of resignation.   He didn't write me the letter of resignation, because he has to resign to the committee.   And I have talked to Boyle three or four times since the letter came, and after the committee acts, I will probably write him a letter.   Yes.    That's right, and I was sure he was going to have a lot of fun as a result.     No, I have not.  5 John L. Sullivan of New Hampshire, former Secretary of the Navy. Mr. Sullivan had been mentioned in the press as a possible successor to Mr. Boyle.    I haven't seen the statement, and therefore I can't comment on it.   I stand by that.    I hope they will pass that amendment so that the controls bill can be operative.    After the committee acts on his resignation.   No. I have talked to Boyle every day, nearly--on various things-not necessary for me to write him a letter.    Well, I can't make a whistle-stop tour until I make the announcement of what I am going to do.    No. It wasn't ready to be sent. Whenever it is ready, why I will send it down. There is nothing behind the curtain on that at all.    That is the same announcement. Q, --with respect to next year?   That's right--  --that's right.   I will answer that in a negative way: I will not say that I would not.    Or any other kind.   --there would be no decision on a whistle-stop tour, that is what I said.   No, I told Bob that I would not say I would not.   That might be done.   The situation is this. Between now and the middle of January it is necessary for me to prepare three terrific messages, one on the State of the Union, one the Budget, and one the Economic Message. And that is going to take every minute of my time from now until I get them delivered. And after that is done, why we will be in a position to talk about other things.    I asked him to do that before he decided to resign. No matter what is being said about Mr. Boyle, it is his health that caused him to quit.    Of course I am concerned over it   --because that has a tremendous effect on the budget.   I am not confident of anything that the Congress will do. I hope they will pass a tax bill.   Somebody might ask a question before you get through, Smitty.     No.  That's all right, Smitty.
