 I have no special announcements to make this morning, so if you want to start off with questions, why go ahead.  
 Well, most of Mr. Baruch's recommendations I was pleased to read, most of them. I have already made a specific recommendation to the Congress, and so far as Mr. Baruch's recommendations are in line with that recommendation, I am for what he said.  I am not for Mr. Hoover's recommendations.  1  On January 19 Bernard Baruch proposed an 11-point program which included postponement of tax reduction for 2 years; a world recovery program based on providing a market in the United States for raw materials from all nations; and an all-out production effort in the United States coupled with wartime controls on food, prices, wages, and profits.  2  On January 22 former President Herbert Hoover was reported in the press as having challenged the administration's handling of the European recovery program, and as having urged that Congress limit appropriations for world relief and rehabilitation to $4 billion for the 15 months beginning April 1, 1948.  
 I think Mr. Wilson is living in 1890, I am sorry to say. There is another Mr. Wilson who doesn't believe that. He is the president of the General Electric Company.  
 No.  3  Adm. Aaron Stanton Merrill. 
 Admiral Merrill. I have never heard of him. 
 He is not being considered by me. 
 I have several men under consideration. I have asked several men to serve, and I have not yet succeeded in getting one to say yes. And the man whom I did get to say yes, the Congress didn't see fit to allow to serve. And that brought the salary proposition into it, which had nothing whatever to do with the proposition at all. I was merely endeavoring to find the man to do the job for me temporarily to get the thing going again. And I found out afterwards that General Kuter's salary was greater than the one that was paid by the chairmanship in the CAA. But they would have saved $10,000 anyway, because Kuter still draws his pay. 
 I think so, yes. I think they should be paid commensurate with their responsibilities. I have always said that. I think I had more to do with the raising of the pay of the Congress than anybody here. 
 No, I shall not.  
 Just read it and compare it with my program which I took down, in the Message on the State of the Union. You can do it yourself. I am not working for newspapers!   
 I will make an announcement on that at a later date.  
 I have no comment on that.  1 On January 17 Alexander F. Whitney, president of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, resigned as vice chairman of the Progressive Citizens of America.  
 I have that under consideration. I have not made up my mind on that, as yet.  
 I am very sorry to see the Prime Minister of Canada retire at this time, although he has given 20 of the best years of his life to Canada as Prime Minister, and in the meantime I think was still a Member of Parliament. He has been in public life a long time. He is 73 years old, but in very good physical condition. I had a very pleasant visit with him when I was in Canada, and he has visited here on several occasions. And Canada is really suffering a loss in a real public servant. I am a very great admirer of Mackenzie King.  
 I just don't approve of Mr. Hoover's statement. That is as far as I care to go. Wouldn't go into details, because it speaks for itself.  
 Probably won't require a message. I will probably send a letter to the Speaker and the President pro tem. 1   1  See Item 12. 
 Yes, indeed. Not only that, it is a very good economic project for both Canada and the United States.  
 No, I haven't the slightest notion. 
 Oh, eventually of course there will be one before the Democratic convention meets in Philadelphia, but I don't see that there is any hurry about any announcement.  
 I didn't say that--everybody in the United States has a right to be a candidate for President if he wants to be, on either party ticket. 
 Some of them don't--they vacillate. Could name a great many who are newcomers to both parties. But some of them, of course, will try to get back on the bandwagon and in the parties where they really belong. 
 You can draw your own conclusions.  
 Oh, undoubtedly there will be, by someone. I know somebody will be a candidate on the Democratic ticket. 
 NO, I don't. I may go down to Key West again for a rest. 
 It probably might, Miss May.1 A front porch campaign. No, that's the front of the White House.   1 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 That's the front of the White House. The Chesapeake and Potomac Canal used to run along down there  2 --[indicating]--and John Quincy Adams used to go down there and swim every morning. Some lady reporter had been trying to get an interview with him for a long time.  2  Tiber Creek formed the southern boundary of the White House grounds until the early 1880's when it was filled in. 
 She went down and sat on his clothes and let him talk to her.  I thought you would be interested in that. 
 No, I wasn't speaking of myself. Anybody can have a porch campaign. Six or eight Republicans can start campaigning. Some of them are not on the front porch, however. 
 I wouldn't say back porch. It's front porch--front porch.   
 No. Just filling up the quotas on the shifts in the Mediterranean.  
 I have never heard of it. Nobody mentioned the subject to me at all. I don't think anybody is thinking about censorship. I told you the last time, you gentlemen are just as patriotic as all of the rest of the country in the protection of your own country, and its welfare is just as much in your hands as it is in mine.  
 I have made that perfectly clear in my statement on the tax proposition. If you will just read that, that covers the ground entirely.  
 No, I have no comment. Most interesting. I have been reading them. Just an historical document. The historians have been clamoring for secret documents and we are trying to give them the documents as fast as we can.  
 I didn't know about it.  1  Washington Evening Star. 
 That is news to me. I never heard of it. He has just as much work to do as any other White House employee. That's the first I've ever heard of it. I haven't read that editorial. I am going to do it.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
