  I signed an important bill this morning, and it is usual to give the pen to those who contributed most to the passage, so I am going to make Joe Fox a present of the pillar bill pen--[laughter].  Joseph A. Fox, Washington Star: I knew my work would be recognized! Thank you, Mr. President!  
 Bill that took these pillars out of Executive Avenue--the pillar bill. 
 Executive Avenue pillar bill . 1   1  The so-called pillar bill authorized the removal of stone piers in West Executive Avenue between the White House grounds and the Department of State building .   I also see that my good friend Tony  2  has turned columnist. He starts off by complaining that the reporters don't get sleep enough on their trips with me. Quite an interesting article, in some out-of-town papers. I don't think Tony knew I was going to get hold of that.  I will try to give you a real merry-go-round next time. We really haven't had a strenuous trip yet, Tony.   2 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 NO sir. No sir, I get plenty. I didn't know why Tony didn't. 
 Better not. That might embarrass Tony at home.  
 Well, I imagine that there will be. Be a trip home, at any rate. 
 Whether you want to hire a plane on that occasion and follow me or not remains to be seen. 
 Well, we will discuss that when it comes up. I never want to discuss it or think about it.  Now I am ready for questions, if you have any you think I can answer.  
 I expressed my views on that in the message I sent to the Congress on the State of the Union. 
 I do.  
 I hadn't heard about it. Maybe they know my mind better than I do.  
 When Mr. Messersmith went to the Argentine, he made it a condition of his going that he was only going temporarily, but I don't know when that time will end. That is a matter that we will have to work out at the proper time. Mr. Messersmith has not been in good health, and he explained to me that when he was down there he was doing it as a favor to Mr. Byrnes and myself.  
 NO, I can't. 
 Just as quickly as I can get the man I am interested in to take the job. 
 Yes, I have. 
 Yes sir. People are always reluctant to take a hard job. There's a difference, you know, between doing a patriotic duty in peacetime and doing a patriotic duty when the country is in a shooting war, when there is some sort of incentive that makes people more cooperative, more anxious to make sacrifices--and I can't blame them.  But the present period is just as important for the welfare of the country as actual shooting warfare would be. And I hope the patriots will bear that in mind: it is necessary to do things that you don't want to do-some good--for the welfare and benefit of your country.  I didn't intend to give you a lecture.  
 NO.  
 I don't know what his mission is. He hasn't talked to me about it. He came to see me socially!  
 No, I have not. That freeze order was worked out on the basis of what we thought the Interior Department could spend, and I think you can get--I know you can get all the details in regard to it from the Budget. It is a complicated proposition, and I would advise you to talk to the Budget about it.  
 We have that matter under consideration in the State Department. I will answer it when it has reached the completion of it.  
 I haven't gone into any detail.  
 I understand that there is one in the mails for me. I haven't read it yet--I haven't seen it, in fact.  
 NO, I have not.  
 NO, it is not. 
 I said no, that I am not being urged by any branches of the Government.  
 Yes, that is perfectly correct. 
 I have no comment on that. Mr. Caffery is not on the same sort of mission that Mr. Messersmith is.  
 We will meet that situation should it arise.  
 It was a very cordial and friendly message about the treatment which the President received in the United States. A beautiful letter, one that I am going to frame and keep for my daughter.  
 Well, when that event takes place, I shall name the plane.  
 I would like to see that bill have all the priority it could get.  
 I do not care to comment on that at this time.  
 NO comment. I haven't read Mr. Bowles's article yet. I don't like to comment on a piece of paper that I haven't seen or haven't read. I had better know what's in it before I make any comment.  
 I have no estimate on the subject. I went into it in some detail at that time, and instructions have been given to the State Department. For myself, I have suggested using the unused quota of northern Europe for displaced persons. They have been working on that. The results have not been very satisfactory.  
 I think I have told you time and again that I do not believe so. I think I made that statement categorically to you at least half-a-dozen times.  
 Not at the present time. Doing everything we possibly can to get the displaced persons situation worked out. It is an international problem, and it will have to be worked out on an international basis. We should do our share toward alleviating that situation, and I have said that from the beginning. 
 I think it would.  
 If it is necessary for the Export-Import Bank to have additional funds, of course they will be asked for. 
 No, I have not. 
 No, it has not. What was your question?  
 I don't think there is any necessity for ever having a bust. If we use good sense and follow just common--the rules of commonsense, don't let the greedy people get control of the country, we won't have any bust. We shouldn't have any boom. That is what we have been trying to prevent. Would like to keep a ceiling on prices, and things of that sort, so there wouldn't be any boom or bust. We have had not much cooperation either legislatively or publicly on that, except that there are a large number of people who have made every effort they can to cooperate with us in this price situation. 
 I can't answer that because I don't know what's in it. I will tell you that when it comes up here. 
 Well, I think prices are too high, particularly commodity prices. 
 That is the main ill.  
 My Budget Message covered that situation completely. I set down in the budget exactly what I thought should be done, and I am sticking by that budget.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
