 Please be seated.  I have no particular announcements to make, but I will listen for questions.  
 Never heard of it.  1 Representative Russell V. Mack of Washington. 
 No. I never heard of it. 
 I don't even know where Olympic National Park is, unless it's Mount Rainier. 
 Unless it's Mount Rainier. 
 I think the Governor pretty well covered the ground this morning. His report of the meetings was entirely accurate.  
 Shoot. 
 The Department of Justice is handling the matter, and it knows how to handle it. And they will be right, in whatever manner they handle it.  Well, well!  
 I haven't received his resignation.  2 Later the same day the White House released the text of the exchange of correspondence in which the President accepted the resignation of Archibald Cox as Chairman of the Wage Stabilization Board.  
 Certainly.  
 I don't know what is intended to be conveyed by reorganization. It is a continuation of the Democratic National Committee on the basis the National Committee always worked on, and it is with the intention of keeping the Democratic Party alive so that it can take over the Congress in 1954. 
 Sure. I am always confident when it comes to the Democrats.  
 I haven't heard about it. The Justice was down to see me with the other Justices just a few days ago, and he gave me no indication that he intended to quit. That's a right good job. I don't think I would quit it.   3 Associate Justice Felix Frankfurter of the United States Supreme Court.  
 The controls will continue as they always have been.  4 On the preceding day the President had approved the agreement of the Bituminous Coal Operators' Association and the United Mine Workers of America , which extended their 1950 contract for at least 12 months and amended it to provide an increase in wages of $1.90 a day. The Wage Stabilization Board had ruled earlier that only $1.50 a day of the increase could be approved under stabilization policy. 
 I can't answer the question. 
 I don't know of any. 
 No. 
 I don't know. That hasn't come up to me. 
 No. The order spoke for itself. I think that the letter 5  that I wrote very plainly set the thing out. I don't think it needs any further explanation that I can see.  5  See Item 341.  
 Yes.   6 Stephen A. Mitchell, chairman of the Democratic National Committee.  It's a lot easier to write sitting down than it is standing up, isn't it?  
 No. I don't know of anything special that is necessary for me to mention. I think everything necessary has been said about it.  
 I have no comment on that. The Secretary of Labor-designate is a very fine gentleman.  7 Martin P. Durkin of Chicago, Ill., general president of the United Association of Journeymen Plumbers and Steamfitters of the U.S. and Canada and a Democrat.  
 I have no comment. You want to give these people a chance to operate. Let's find out what they'll do. This comment in advance never does anybody any good. If they make any mistakes, why they will certainly be pointed out by the Democratic Party. And if they do what's right and get along all right, I'll be just as happy as anybody else.  
 Well, it will be taken care of in the usual way. We'll raise the money and pay it off, as we always do.  
 I wish I could, but I know very well that I can't go. I'm sorry. I would like very much to be there. I have been very cordially invited by several people on the other side, but I can't go.  8 Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom, who was crowned on June 2, 1953. 
 I'll be having too much to do. I think I am going to spend a good deal of time resting. That will be going on about that time. 
 No, I am sure I can't go. I would like to very much.  
 No, I haven't. I don't know what I am going to do. As I say, I am going to see what it's like not to have anything to do all day. I have been working 17 hours a day now straight for 30 years, and that's a long time.  
 What's that? 
 They will get all the information that we can possibly give them. It will be the most orderly turnover that has ever been made from one administration to another. 
 It has been suggested to them, but I don't know whether they will or not. It has been suggested to them. I suggested to him when he was here, that he send people for information in every department of the Government and it would be furnished to them, and he has so far gone a long way toward doing that.  
 No, I have no comment on that.  
 No. No, I have lived in Washington for 18 years, and that's quite long enough. 
 Independence, Missouri, at 219 North Delaware Street. 
 The telephone number is not in the book.  
 No. I am leaving that up to you. You fellows know all about everything. I have seen you speculate on what I am going to do, what I haven't done, and what will be done in the future. Why don't you speculate on this which is past, and come up with the answer? You are perfectly capable of doing it.  
 No, you can't. When Herbert Hoover went back to his home in California, after 1932, the souvenir hunters almost tore his house down, and he had to put a fence around it. And we are going to leave that fence there, not because we like it, but it's just the American way to take souvenirs. It was said in the First World War that the French fought for their country, the British fought for freedom of the seas, and the Americans fought for souvenirs. And I think that was correct.   
 Oh, I have been invited to do most everything. You can't name anything that I haven't been asked to do. 
 Well, no. I have been fussing at columnists for a long time. I think it would be bad for them for me to turn into one.  
 NO, I would have no desire to do that. 
 When I get through with press conferences, I am going to stay away from them. That will be up to him. That will be his funeral, not mine. 
 Well, of course. I think they are a good thing. I think it's one institution in this country that is entirely different from all the other countries in the world, and I am sure he will continue them. 
 I really do, yes. It's one way that the President has to get his ideas over, in a way that people can understand. I think they are a good thing, and I have had, I think, most pleasant ones. I think I have had just about as much fun out of them as you have.  Robert G. Nixon of the International News Service: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right, Bob.
