 I have no special announcements to make this morning, but I thought maybe you might want to ask me some questions and I will answer them if I can.    NO, not necessarily. It was a voluntary procedure on our part. We will have the receptions as usual. The idea was that we could probably save a good deal of food by canceling the state dinners for this season, as we did during the war, but that doesn't make it incumbent upon anybody else to make any cancellations unless they desire to do so. I know what you are interested in--you are interested in that photographers' dinner that you have been getting ready for some time.  As long as they comply with the rules of food conservation, I see no reason why they shouldn't go ahead with the dinner, if they want to.    Well, I have had replies from 23 or 24 Governors. They have been coming in right straight along, and I haven't had a chance to read all of them as yet. I remember, though, that the Governor's message was one of them and that it was cooperative. All of them have been cooperative, which makes me believe that the food program is well on the way to success.   The Citizens Food Committee is in conference now with the poultrymen and with the feed men. What we are after is grain. We are trying to raise million bushels of grain to feed starving people over the next 6 months.   That is what we are after. We are trying to find a practical way to do it. Now we have to make this program--it was an emergency with which we were faced, and under ordinary conditions we would have worked out the program more deliberately and have consulted these people in advance. As it was, we had to work out the program and then find out where the "bugs" were and remedy that if it is necessary. What we are after is grain for the hungry people, and I know it is a--sometimes we feel like we have been imposed upon, but this is an attempt to get this free enterprise Nation to do voluntarily what other nations have to do by police state methods, and that we don't want to do.   Well, what we are trying to do is, over a certain period of time, is save a certain amount of grain. Now we have got the distillers and the bakery people, and everybody else--the restaurant people and everybody--trying to help us do that job. Now if they will tell us some way to save grain, I have no objection to any method that will save the grain to get to these hungry people. I am trying to keep people from starving to death this winter, that's all.   Now that's like which came first, the chicken or the egg. Can't answer a question like that. Can't answer that question.  What I am trying to do is prevent grain, that should go to feed hungry people, from being fed to chickens and livestock for a certain period of time. If we can get that 100 million bushels of grain, then we can go on almost as usual.   Well now, that's a matter that I am letting the Citizens Food Committee work out the best way that they know how. We have got some very able people on that committee, and they are holding conferences every day. Certain other people are trying to get this thing to work-some way to get the grain. That is what we are after. We are interested in grain to feed hungry people.    I can't answer that question now. We are still working on it. We are still trying to find the funds for the stopgap aid, but that doesn't necessarily mean that there won't have to be a special session if it becomes necessary, as I have always told you. Not hesitate to call one.   Yes, we have had considerable success in finding funds. We have got the Export-Import Bank to release some of its regulations on this last 93 or 98 million dollars, whatever it was, that France still had coming on their loan; and we found this $50 million that was owing to them-France says we owe them--bought francs-so that France would have the dollars to spend. We are making every effort in other directions, which I will report to you as they come along.   Of course there is.    General Marshall will have a statement to make on that in a few days. The report was made to General Marshall.    That matter--we will cross that bridge when we come to it.    I have no comment to make on that.    I will be prepared in a few days to name that panel. I will announce it to you just as soon as it is ready.    I have no comment. That is a local municipal matter, which should be handled in the proper way by the proper authorities. I have no comment on that.    The Krug report will be released in a few days, as soon as we are ready. I want to read it carefully myself before I release it. 1   1 See Item 212.    Not entirely, no. I have read some of it--extracts from it--but I haven't read it carefully.  2 James F. Byrnes, "Speaking Frankly," New York: Harper and Brothers, 1947.   I have no comment.    Why necessarily. Anything that you have to enforce by police methods is a police state method. I remember all the argument about taking off price controls, and voluntary saving, and all that sort of thing, that prices wouldn't go up. Don't you remember all that conversation about what would happen when we got rid of price controls ? Most interesting history, if you want to go back a little into it.   That's right. I have some very interesting figures on that myself. I try to keep up with these things. There is a graph--[taking one out of his desk and indicating ]--right there that shows the situation. Most interesting.   Yes, it would be just the same high prices. The export--that is a piece of misinformation. The effect, of course, of large purchases in any market has a tendency to raise that price a small amount. But it is a very small percentage of the grain crop in this country that goes for exports. There has been a tremendous amount of gambling on those commodity exchanges, both in food and fiber. That is what causes high prices principally in the food products.   Yes, it has been--it has been--  --that wheat crop has been traded in about 8 or 9 times--8 or 9 billion bushels have been traded in on the Chicago Board of Trade alone. Now you can put that down for what it's worth, because about exports--the exports are not out of line with what it has always been. We have always exported a third or more of our wheat crop.   I don't know. We will have to wait and see how they are going. They haven't had a chance to work completely yet. Haven't been in force long enough.    Yes, we are having it looked into.   By the Attorney General.   No, there hasn't been, so far.   Food and fiber, yes. This thing covers the whole ground.   You would have to ask the Attorney General about that, because I don't run the details. You ask the Attorney General.   No, the Attorney General took it up on his own initiative, which was right in his department, and should have been done.   That's right.   NO. No, these--they don't come in on that. You don't have commodity exchanges in livestock. The prices of livestock usually are set in the five market centers--in Chicago, St. Paul, Omaha, Fort Worth, and Kansas City.   That's right.    No. No decision has been made on that.    Yes, they are. Anything you have to enforce and punish people for infringing is a police state approach.   Yes, it had to be. It was the only way you could make it work. Under the emergency we have to assume those controls. But I was told, I think very vociferously, that this is a free country, that we wouldn't suffer from any of the things that we are now suffering from, if we took price controls off right away.   I can't answer that. You will have to see how the situation works.   Yes.    NO, I can't answer that now. I will make an announcement on it whenever we can.    Yes.   The Attorney General is making the investigation. I don't know how he is doing it. You will have to ask him.    Any control enforced by the state is a police method of getting the job done. And of course it has to be done in any emergency, and everybody agrees to do it. But in a free country like this it wants to be done under the agreement of all the people, and not at the behest of just one   That's right. It depends on the emergency.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
