  I have no announcements to make, gentlemen, except that I want to clear up just one thing, and that is in regard to the procedure of the Ways and Means Committee.  There has been a lot of speculation on the Ways and Means Committee--Ways and Means Committee and the President on procedure. The Ways and Means Committee have been proceeding exactly as I have requested them to proceed.  I asked them, in the first place, to consider social security ahead of taxes, and that is the reason they are doing it.   The matter was placed before me by the Waltham Watch Company and two or three other American watch companies. I made no comment on the situation, except to take the papers which they gave me and told them I would look into it.    No.   Home relief funds. I don't know what that means, but go ahead and explain it to him, Tony. 1   1 Anthony H. Leviero of the New York Times.   Never heard of it.    No reason in the world why he should be criticized. Stanley Woodward informed me the other day--just accidentally happened to inform me that he has more than a hundred--two or three--over there in his drawer that have been presented to nearly every--every general and admiral that we have got here in Washington, and more than twenty of these--this same medal that General Vaughan received, in that drawer, and various other generals and admirals in the service of the United States Government. There wasn't a thing in the world wrong with it. It was handled strictly according to law. And the only reason for the squawk is because General Vaughan happens to be my military aide.  2 Medal of the Order of San Martin.   That's it.   They do not. It's the specific--the law is specific on it, that those decorations are to be--not to be received individually until they receive permission from Congress to get them. That's the--in the criminal code--in the United States Code, not the criminal code--United States Code. During wartime it was allowed by the Congress by specific law that the military services could receive--and civilians, too--could receive decorations from our Allies or associated powers in the World War. That period expired on the 30th day of last June, and the civil code went into effect at that time.    My ideas were very clearly and specifically expressed by the Secretary of State yesterday after an interview with me. 3  There isn't anything mysterious about it at all. Resolution 239 was passed by the Senate and unanimously passed by the House. And I announced clearly in my message on the--in the inaugural message, and in various messages on it previous to that, our stand in connection with the Atlantic Pact. There is no confusion about it at all.  3  Secretary of State Acheson's statement is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .   Yes sir. Yes, it does.    If I remember correctly, Secretary Royall categorically denied the statement. There is no comment to make on it, under those circumstances.    The Central Arizona project is under consideration by the Congress, and it hasn't been considered as--whether it's a part of the program or not. The water situation in Arizona and in California is in a serious situation. I myself have been making some personal investigations on the situation, with the idea to try to find more water for both of those States.   My position has never been reversed. It has been the same all the time.   There isn't any confusion on the Hill about it. If you will question Senator Hayden and the Senators from California, you will find that there is no confusion, and never has been. Not in my mind.    I receive a regular monthly report.   I think myself, personally, that the situation is nothing to be alarmed about. I think it's the leveling off that everybody has been wishing for. And I hope that is the case, and that we do not have another spiral in prices.    No.  4  Regulation W, for the control of consumer credit, was originally issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in 1941 . Under Public Law 905, 80th Congress, the regulation would become inoperative after June 30, 1949.   I am not considering it at the present time. If it becomes apparent that it should be modified, why it will be modified.    He has been trying to resign ever since he has been down there. I will tell you all about it later, after an interview with him.    Yes, that's news to me.   That's news to me.   That decision will have to be made by General Smith himself. He is under treatment now, on account of his health, and I haven't had a conference with him lately. That is up to General Smith.   I think that is correct.    There's nothing further, after that message.   No, that is not true. My position is exactly as it was. It hasn't changed a bit. It's a matter of procedure-doesn't make any difference.   Because they are not--we were not ready on the tax proposition as yet. Just a matter of keeping the Ways and Means Committee busy.    I made my statement to the Congress in my message. And it still stands.    I don't know anything about it, Pete 5  The Constitution should follow the flag wherever it goes, and trials should be conducted as we usually conduct them in this country. That is my theory, and I am trying to enforce it. I don't know anything about this one to which you refer.  5  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.    That is not true. Not a word of truth in that.    I think the Loyalty Board undoubtedly heard all the evidence and made the proper decision. That's all the comment I will have. That's what I set them up for.  6 On February 11 the Government's Loyalty Review Board rejected disloyalty charges brought against William Remington, Director of the Export Program Staff of the Department of Commerce, by Elizabeth Bentley. He was ordered to be reinstated, with backpay, in the Department of Commerce post from which he had been suspended since July 1948.  The testimony of Miss Bentley and Mr. Remington is recorded in "Export Policy and Loyalty Hearings Before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments," dated July-August 1948 .    That was during wartime.   Wartime precaution.   Merely a wartime precaution had to be done that way.    I can't remember enough about the case, Tony. 7  That's the first I had heard of that controversy. Is that on the-that Hungry Horse Dam?  7  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.   Flat Head River. But I think that one is the Hungry Horse.   Then I happen to know a little bit more about it than you do, Tony.     Yes, that is comparable. It is comparable to that, but I am very anxious that American citizens--I don't want to treat--I am very anxious that American citizens   Well, that's--then that's a different matter. I am speaking strictly of Americans under--no matter where they are, you ought to have the same privilege that you have at home, if you work for the Government. I don't care where you are, in the occupied areas, or the trial of these foreigners, it's comparable to that.   Well, that's a matter for argument, I think, if it comes to spies in enemy countries.    That's not my controversy. I would talk to the Secretary for Army.   I couldn't understand what you said?   I have no comment to make on that. The policy on Japan is set and fixed, and it hasn't changed.  There has never been any change in policy, nor is there any indication of a change in policy.    None at all. That is a matter for Pennsylvania to handle.    I beg your pardon?   They are in the course of preparation, and as soon as possible we will have them ready.   That's right--I believe I referred specifically to it in the message--in the Message on the State of the Union, I think.    I have no argument with Senator Taft. My views on the subject have been expressed in message after message to Congress. If the Senators want to have an argument about it, that's their privilege.   You're welcome.
