  I have a couple of announcements to make. I requested the Congress for an additional million dollars for disaster relief, to be used in part to meet critical conditions caused by snowstorms in Western States.  The supplemental estimate for the fiscal year 1949 would supplement an appropriation of $500,000 for disaster relief enacted last spring. Only $50,000 of the original amount still remains. Last spring 150,000 of the total was allocated to alleviate damage caused by floods in the Columbia River Basin. Within the last few days, an additional $300,000 has been provided to meet the current storm emergency. 1   Did you all get that?  Then I want to announce--  1 On January 29 the President wrote to Secretary Forrestal directing him to utilize such resources of the National Military Establishment as were appropriate to the relief of the disaster area, based on requests by the Federal Works Administrator. The letter continued as follows:  "The Departments of the National Military Establishment are authorized and directed to expend such sums as are required for this purpose from any funds now available to those departments, including funds available for river and harbor and flood control works of the Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, without regard for existing apportionments. I will transmit to the Congress a request for such appropriations as may be considered necessary to replace such funds of the Departments of the National Military Establishment as may be used for this purpose." 
 Writing with both hands at once! Well, I'll go slow on this.  Mr. Ross: We'll have that all mimeographed for you.   THE PRESIDENT. I have invited the Prime Minister of Canada to visit Washington on February 12. He has accepted the invitation, and it is expected that he will arrive in Washington on the evening of February 11, and will remain probably for a days.  The Prime Minister's acceptance of the invitation will permit us to renew his acquaintance--I became very well acquainted with him November 15, 1948--after having served first as Minister of Justice and then as Secretary of State for External Affairs since 1941. This will be the Prime Minister's first trip to the United States since he assumed his duties as Prime Minister. I meant to say that I am acquainted with him on my trip up--my visit to Canada. That was the first time I had met him, and I am inviting him down here for the purpose of becoming better acquainted with the Prime Minister of our neighbor. 
 I very carefully was trying to avoid it, because I don't know how to pronounce it: Louis St. Laurent-L-a-u-r-e-n-t--I don't know how to pronounce it--that's a French pronunciation. I wouldn't attempt to pronounce it.  Tony, 2  you put me on the spot.  2  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 No. 
 None--nothing whatever. Just a friendly visit of the Prime Minister of Canada to the President of the United States.  
 The origin of point four has been in my mind, and in the minds of members of the Government, for the past 2 or 3 years, ever since the Marshall plan was inaugurated. It originated with the Greece and Turkey proposition. Been studying it ever since. I spend most of my time going over to that globe back there, trying to figure out ways to make peace in the world. 
 It's a policy of the administration over the next 4 years, and it's something that will have to be implemented gradually. I have asked the Secretary of State to get together with the heads of the departments of the Government, and try to work out preliminary plans for an approach to it. I can't tell you just what is going to take place, where it is going to take place, or how it is going to take place. I know what I want to do. 
 Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of Agriculture--all the departments of Government will be interested in it. 
 ECA is doing it right now. That's what their job is. That's what their job is.  
 I will answer that question when I am ready to do it.  
 I think it's a rather poor approach on their part. I don't think they are going to be able to do it. The Rent Control Administrator is working on that situation now. It originated in Oklahoma City and Tulsa, that great oil center down there.   
 I think it speaks for itself. All you need do is read the speech; it is perfectly plain. Doesn't seem to have confused any foreign government. The only people who seem to be confused about it are our own newspapers here at home.   
 Let the man ask his question. 
 I have no more confidence in polls than I had before the election. I never did have--I never did have any confidence in polls, and I haven't got any confidence in them now. I make my decision on whether it's right or wrong from my point of view, after I have all the information and all the facts I can get to go on. Polls have no effect on me whatever. 
 I can't answer the question because I don't agree with polls under any circumstances.  
 The only time I heard about it was the rumor that was going around here. I never heard of it. I never heard of it.  
 No.  
 My only comment would be on the price of steel, which I have always thought was too high.  
 I have had some conferences with the chairmen of the two labor committees, and that situation is progressing. And I am sure that the labor committees will promptly proceed with the labor legislation. 
 We are cooperating with the committees, as we always do.  
 We are not working on it, at the present time, but we are going to work on it some time soon. 
 I can't answer that right now. We are considering the situation. When the thing is ready, I will furnish you with it.  
 I am not ready to comment on that. 
 The Economic Advisers are getting up a report on that situation now, and when I have heard from them, then I will be able to comment. I want all the facts before I comment.  
 The only comment I can make on that is that they passed through the receiving line and were very cordially received. That's the best comment I can make.  
 No comment. 
 No comment.  
 Yes, I know what I am going to do with him. I will let you know at the proper time.  3 Mon C. Wallgren served as United States Senator from the State of Washington from November 1940 to January 1945, and as Governor from January 1945 to January 1949. He was defeated for reelection as Governor in November 1948. 
 No--[laughter]--it isn't the proper time. 
 Well, I will let you know whenever I am ready. I always do. You are never kept in the dark on things of that sort.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
