  I have an announcement or two to make, one of which you seem to have gotten from the Senate. I am making Charles R. Denny, Jr., Acting Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.   And I want to issue a short statement about the air conference at Bermuda. I am very well pleased with it; and you will be handed a copy of the release as you go out.  "The major purpose of the two governments"--this is the last paragraph-"in regard to civil air transport has now been set forth in writing." And the paragraph from the conference is quoted here.   And I also want to say to you that the Army is doing a right good job. Six million, 300 thousand discharges now, on the 22d of February. In the Navy it must be about a million, three. So that makes over seven million who have been--over seven and a half million who have been discharged since last October. \. I think the Navy is about a million, 300 thousand, and Army at 6 million, 300 thousand. \. This is--Oh yes--Oh yes. \. In September there had been--well, we'll say in August--by the end of August there had been a little over 500,000 discharged. And now, on the 22d of February, the--6 million, 300 thousand in the Army; and the Navy, I think, is about a million, 300 thousand.  I have this from the President of Harvard University, which I think might help the situation. He, President Eliot of Harvard, speaking of the University, said, "Things seem to be going fairly well, now that a spirit of pessimism prevails in all the departments." That could apply to the Government, I think. \. Now that a spirit of pessimism prevails in all the departments. \. Yesterday or the day before.  I think he was talking about politics--not the Government.  Mr. Ross: That was some time ago, Mr. President. He said it was Eliot.  THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I have got the wrong President. This was said by President Eliot of Harvard, and somebody said that would apply now. \. Oh, 25 or 30 years ago.    I have appointed Julius A. Krug to be Secretary of the Interior.  I just wanted to say that I had considered a large number of names, among them Senator O'Mahoney, but I decided that O'Mahoney's usefulness in the Senate should not be interfered with. He has been there for 113 years, and Senator Barkley was very happy that Senator O'Mahoney was going to stay in the Senate.  I think Mr. Krug is an able administrator. He was WPB Administrator here, and he has had a great deal of experience in administrative jobs. And I think he will make an excellent Secretary of the Interior. He will take office the 15th of March. \. Yes. \. It happens to be, yes.  \. He has organized an engineering firm of his own in the City of New York, and he is doing a marvelous business. \. I don't know about that, whether he is the head of the firm. He is a member of an engineering firm in New York. \. Well, he will still be Assistant Secretary of the Interior. \. Not any. \. Well, Tony has got a right to cross-examine me. You know he was confused the last time, and I told him I wasn't. I knew something he didn't.  1  Ernest B. Vaccaro, Associated Press. \. Yes. They all learnt it this morning.  \. Wisconsin.   \. I can't answer that. I don't know.  \. That is correct. That's the way it should be. I don't know. After all, he has the greatest command of the English language of anybody in the world. \. Well, I am not familiar with what he will say. And I won't be familiar with what he will say. He will be responsible for his speech. That will be made perfectly clear when I introduce him.  \. What's that? \. No, it does not.  \. Here in Washington? Still considering that. I went down and took a look at it with the Secretary of the Interior, and I am still considering it. I haven't yet studied the other viewpoint on the subject.  But I imagine in the long run I will make a decision on it some day. \. Mr. Ickes? He made a recommendation for one bridge.  \. We have that under consideration. Now, if it is necessary to issue any more, they will be issued.  \. I was with the Capital Park and Planning Commission at the same time that I was with Secretary Ickes; and then Mr. MacDonald of the Roads has been in and talked to me about it, and there are several other people who are interested in it. I haven't seen the Institute of American Architects yet, but I suppose I will.  \. I haven't seen the District Commissioners-- \. He was for two.\. I congratulate them on it. \. Why should it? We are tending to our own business, and I suppose they will be able to attend to theirs. They have up to date, and so have we. \. Congratulate them. I said I do it now. I had no reason to do it previously.  \. It was an administrative matter which interested only the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the President. \. I don't think you would. \. No connection with it whatever. I can say that to you. \. No. It's none of your business.   \. None whatever. I answered that last week, and it still stands--still stands. \. I did not.\. It was chili. It was chili, and then apple pie and coffee. And it was good!  Reporter: Well, thank you, Mr. president. Note: President Truman's fiftieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, February 26, 1946. 
