  This happens to be the 200th press conference that has been held since I have been President, in the course of 234 weeks, I believe. And I have no special announcements to make to you this morning.  
 When it becomes necessary for me to name them, I will.  
 The last report of the Secretary of Defense was a progress report. There will be continuing recommendations from the committee which I appointed. Eventually we will reach, I hope, what we contemplated in the beginning. You can't do it all at once. The progress report was a good report, and it isn't finished yet. 
 Yes.  
 The economy wave, if you remember, was for the Department of Defense, and that covered all the departments in the Department of Defense, and it covers every other department in the Government. I think, if you will make an investigation, you will find that the Department of Agriculture has been cut down immensely since its wartime effort, as has every other department of the Government. Some day I will give you some figures on that that will startle you a little bit. The economy wave is always carried out by the Executive. The rest of the people talk about it.  
 Those warnings were well-timed and were necessary. The program has not reached the point yet where it is necessary for me to intervene.  
 Yes, it has. 
 In connection with the shale deposits in Utah, and things of that sort. I think there was an experiment--I know there was an experiment going on down here in Virginia--on coal being made into liquid fuel.  
 I remember it very distinctly. It was customary when Jim Farley was chairman. I had the heat put on me by Jim.  It is customary, and it is proper, and it should be done, and Bill Boyle is doing it because I asked him to. 
 It wasn't done so privately, as I remember it very distinctly. It was advertised to high heaven. They tried to get me to vote against Pat Harrison for leader of the Senate. I voted for Mr. Harrison. I was asked to vote for Mr. Barkley. I had nothing against Mr. Barkley, but I had promised Mr. Harrison, and I voted for him, but the heat was very well put on. Not anything wrong, and it should be done. If we are going to have party discipline in this country, then we must run our two-party system with party responsibility. 
 I beg your pardon? 
 No, not necessarily. You have got to have party discipline, if you are going to transact the business of the Government. One of the things that you gentlemen do sometimes is to point the finger of shame at a fellow when he's loyal to his party; and it isn't the right thing to do. A man is elected on a party platform, and he ought to carry out what the party promises to do. 
 That is a question I can't answer at the present time. 
 That's a good question. I was not informed that it was a party matter when the thing came up. If I had been informed in time, I would have stayed with the party, and besides that, it was a Democratic fight in the beginning. That was not a party matter at all.  
 I made all the statement that I intend to make, on the subject, in that statement that was made on the 23d of September. 1   1 See Item 216.  
 That's a matter for the Secretary of the Navy to handle. 2   2 On October 6, Francis P. Matthews, Secretary of the Navy, suspended Capt. John G. Crommelin, Jr., from duty and ordered him to be confined to the city of Washington preparatory to a court-martial. This order was later rescinded, and Captain Crommelin was returned to duty on November 8, after receiving a letter of reprimand from Adm. Forrest P. Sherman, the new Chief of Naval Operations. 
 I did. 
 The Secretary of the Navy was instructed to handle the matter.  
 Yes. Senator Gillette and I have always been friends. I don't know what the Senator wants, but I will talk to him about anything he wants to talk to me about. Something, I imagine, that affects the State of Iowa. 
 Could be.   
 Read my message on it, and you will find exactly what the party program is on the farm bill. All you have to do is read the message, and you will get all the information.  3 The disagreement on the farm program between Vice President Barkley and Senate Majority Leader Scott Lucas centered around the amendment to S. 2522, introduced in the Senate on September 26 by Senators Milton R. Young of North Dakota and Richard B. Russell of Georgia. The amendment would require 90 percent of parity supports for basic crops for which marketing quotas or acreage allotments were in effect. In a tie breaking vote on October 4 the Vice President supported the amendment, whereas the Majority Leader opposed it.  
 No. No, I will let you know after I make the appointment. 4   4 On October 12, 1949, the nominations of Edward T. McCormick and Donald C. Cook to be members of the Security and Exchange Commission were sent to the Senate.  
 I can't answer a question like that. I don't know. We have made the most important proposition in the history of the world with regard to that atomic situation, and the Russians didn't see fit to accept our proposition.  
 The Justice Department has a standing order to that effect. I haven't made any special order on the subject. 
 No. No, no. I didn't know he had made any.   5 According to newspaper reports, Mayor deLesseps S. Morrison of New Orleans had recently presented a report on crime to a meeting of the American Municipal Association in Chicago.  
 I hope that he will be confirmed. That's the reason I am doing all I can to get him confirmed.  
 Well now, you will have to make up your own mind on that. You are an excellent reporter for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, and you ought to know.  
 No. I will announce him just as soon as I can. We are trying to get one.  
 Well, I like it. I like press conferences. I always try to answer your questions straight from the shoulder, try to tell you the truth, and when I can't answer them, I don't answer them. 
 Well, I never get annoyed with you. I get annoyed with your bosses, sometimes.  I think most of you try your best to be entirely fair. I have never had any reason to quarrel with you.  
 I am sorry, I didn't get to read Mrs. Roosevelt. 
 I don't think anybody knows what will be in that bill until it gets here. It hasn't passed yet.  6 See Item 233. 
 Well, I think it's in conference. I don't think so. 
 I don't think it is proper for me to have anything to say about it.  
 No, it has not. Mr. Fitzpatrick covered that, I think. 7 7 Paul E. Fitzpatrick, New York State Democratic Chairman. 
 I said there have been no arrangements made.  
 Yes, the proposal of the United States to turn over to the United Nations the atomic control of the world. No other nation in the history of the world, with the most terrible weapon in its possession, has ever been known to do anything of that sort.  
 Not necessarily. 
 Any number of proposals that couldn't be accepted, and this will probably be in the same class. 
 No. 
 I hope there won't have to be an arms race. I still have hopes that we will get the United Nations in the position where it will control such things as that.  Reporter: Thank you, sir. Note: President Truman's two hundredth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, October 6, 1949. 
