 Be seated, please. I will try to answer questions. I have no statements to make.    I haven't received the telegrams. The railroad brotherhoods and the railroad management are negotiating--trying to reach an agreement here in Washington, but that is all I know about it. I have not received those telegrams.   Yes, they are--very day.   Well, you can check it. They are negotiating every day.    Well, Mr. Ross covered that thoroughly this morning. 1  I noticed the ticker just before I came over here, and what he said is exactly correct and covers the situation completely.  1 Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President, had announced that while the administration reaffirmed its support of a universal military training bill the President would not press for its immediate enactment. See also Item 225.    Well, I would like very much, of course, to see the District get its home rule program. It will be a fine thing if they could get that bill out as promptly as they did that post office bill the other day-of which I am not in favor.   Oh, we can't talk about that until it gets here. You see, it hasn't passed the Senate yet, and there are still a lot of maneuvers before I have to act on it. I will make that decision when it comes before me, as always.    Well, the situation with respect to UMT has been very capably covered by Charlie, and I don't want to get into that controversial matter. I am trying to get emergency legislation that is necessary in our present emergency passed, and this is a very controversial subject. My position on it has been made amply clear. You will find at least five messages to the Congress, and several letters to the chairmen of these committees, which explain exactly how I stand on the matter. I am for universal training, and always have been, but I don't see any reason now for cluttering up the Congress with another controversial matter when they seem to have controversy enough on what they have.    Well, for several months Mayor O'Dwyer has been considering the Ambassadorship to Mexico. When I found out that he was in a favorable frame of mind, I sent for him and offered it to him.  2 On August 15 Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President, announced that Mayor William O'Dwyer of New York City would retire from that post on August 31, 1950, and would be appointed U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. The nomination was confirmed by the Senate on September 18.  Walter Thurston, Mr. O'Dwyer's predecessor as Ambassador, remained in Mexico City on the Embassy staff until April 3, 1951. At that time he returned to Washington to assume new duties as a special adviser on Latin American affairs for the Department of State.  The relations with Mexico have always been on a very satisfactory basis. It is one of our friendliest neighbors--always has been.   Mr. Ross: I think there might be some confusion, Mr. President, about these railroad negotiations. The parties have temporarily separated. Dr. Steelman is still working on it to bring them back together again.   Charlie says that the railroad men and management have made temporary adjournment, but they have been communicating with each other every day. I know that because that is reported to me every day. They may not be sitting around a table together today, but they will come back together shortly.    Not at all. Not at all.    No.    We are getting up the orders now to put it into effect.   About the port security bill, implementing the port security bill-working on it now.    No.   NO.  It means that I have it under consideration.   Yes.    I have no comment to make on that statement. I am very much interested in the bipartisan foreign policy, and I hope it will continue in effect and very effectively as it has in the past.  3 The statement, by the minority Members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, was sharply critical of past and present policies of the Democratic administrations but pledged cooperation for final victory in Korea. It was signed by the following Republican Senators: Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin, H. Alexander Smith of New Jersey, Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa, and Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., of Massachusetts. The text is printed in the Congressional Record .    Yes. I had a conversation with Senator Lehman on legislative matters and on the New York political situation, and I have no comment to make on what he told me.    Well now, you will have to ask him that.    No, I have no speaking plans. I have canceled all speaking dates. You know, I am very busy at the desk over here in the White House office, all the time and far into the night.    I think that is a contemptible statement and beneath comment.   Did you have a question you wanted to ask?   It's all right.   You will find in the last two paragraphs of Secretary Johnson's letter the answer to your question. 5  4 See Item 225. 5  According to reports in the press, Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson had sent a letter to Congress on August 17 expressing his approval of legislation on universal military training.    I will answer that question if it should happen. I am hopeful that there will be a settlement.    I said that the statement was a contemptible statement, beneath comment.   You're welcome.
