 I have no particular announcements to make today, so you might as well start off with your questions.  
 I am not making any endorsements from any States outside Missouri. 
 I have made no suggestions to anyone on political alignments in any State outside the State of Missouri. 
 That is my home State. I have got a right to make suggestions. 
 I have none to make.[Laughter]  
 I will act on that when it comes before me. I don't like to discuss legislation until I know what it's going to be. You see, it still has to act on that. 
 The Senate bill suited me exactly.  
 Mr. Baruch stated the--Mr. Baruch stated the policy of the United States at the direction of the President. 
 The Baruch report to the atomic energy committee is--has my endorsement. 
 Including all the provisions which are in it.  
 Yes. He acknowledged it. 
 Yes.  
 No, but I will. Mr. Forfestal was in to talk to me about it. 1    1  The letter from Secretary Patterson, dated June 18, and one from Secretary Forrestal, dated June 24, were released by the White House on June 18 and 26, respectively.  
 I would not like to answer a question like that, because of course there will be negotiation on it, and we may reach an agreement. 
 I would rather not discuss it, that phase of it. 
 It certainly is, and I have made that perfectly plain time and again.  
 I have no comment. Understand it was an unauthorized release, so I have no comment to make on it.  
 Discussed the food situation, and he reported that he had had a very successful trip to South America, and would make a formal report on it, to me, at a later date. 
 It did not.  
 I have no comment to make on it, because I don't know enough about it to give you an intelligent answer. 
 No.  2 Haj Amin el Husseini, the Mufti of Jerusalem and leader of the anti-Zionist Arab forces, had been in exile and under house arrest in France. Because of his pro-Nazi war activities the Mufti was in danger of being tried as a war criminal and had escaped to Egypt.  
 I will let you hear about that when I get the OPA bill here on my desk. 
 It was not. We discussed only food and its relationship to the world, and South America's contribution to it.  
 He is not coming home by way of Moscow. He will probably go to Germany before he gets home.  
 Governor Tugwell has been trying to quit as Governor of Puerto Rico for some time. He has agreed to stay until I can find a successor here. 
 I have not.  
 General Gregory has been wanting to quit for some time on account of his health, and as soon as I can find a satisfactory successor to him, why he will quit. 
 No, he has not.  
 Yes. We discussed everything in connection with the Pacific, and he is going to discuss the matter further with the Under Secretary of State.  
 I beg your pardon? 
 He does not contemplate a return until after the new government has been established; and I have sent the appointment as an Ambassador to the--first Ambassador to the Philippines, to the Senate.  
 They are still negotiating, that's all I can say. 
 Yes, that's true. 
 No it isn't, right at this time.  
 No, no. Mr. Evatt discussed them. I didn't. He is going to discuss the matter further with the State Department. That is as far as it went. There were some statements on it which I am not at liberty to quote.  
 No. We sent a commission to England to discuss that matter with the British Government. 
 I have no comment to make at the present time.  
 No. Only what I see in the papers. 
 Every day. I hear from him every day. 
 By telegraph.  
 No, I haven't. I wish I could make some, but I can't. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
