 I have no special announcements to make today. I thought maybe you might be curious and would like to ask a few questions, and I will try to answer them if I can.  
 I think Mr. Lovett effectively covered that in his press conference yesterday, and I am in agreement with what Mr. Lovett had to say. 1   1  In his press conference on December 29 Acting Secretary of State Robert A. Lovett denounced the arrest on espionage charges of Josef Cardinal Mindszenty of Hungary. He declared the action was obviously based on false charges and was the culmination of a long series of oppressive actions in Hungary.  
 That is not in my bailiwick. That is a legislative matter. 
 That also is a matter that the House itself will have to work on.  
 No, I can't tell you anything--only what I have seen in the paper. 
 That's all I know about it--just what I have seen in the paper.  
 Isn't it remarkable the extent to which speculation can go! He was not. 
 I say it's a wonderful thing the extent to which speculation can go. Just keep on speculating. It's good.  1  Maxim M. Litvinov, former Soviet ambassador to the United States. 
 It cannot be clarified. I said it just as plainly as it possibly could be said at the time I said it; and I have nothing further to say to it. 
 Time and again. 
 Well, it meant the same thing. It was in substantially the same language. 
 Not new, so far as I am concerned. 
 It had no connection with that. 
 I think I made both statements, and they are both correct. 
 No emphasis whatever. Just a statement of fact, if you read the statement-it speaks for itself. 
 I have not.  
 Bryson, 1  you want a plug? Well, television was, I think, very important where it was in use. It didn't cover enough territory, was the only trouble. I wish it had covered more territory.  1  Bryson B. Rash of the American Broadcasting Co.  
 No, I haven't seen that. I haven't seen that. I haven't heard anything about it--any such orders. 
 Well, it's news to me.  
 Mr. Lovett made the proper statement on the matter. That is the recognized government of China by all the governments of the world. 
 That is a matter that will come out in the messages.  
 Well, the Message on the State of the Union will cover the waterfront. There will be a message on the economic situation, which will be in some detail. There will be the Budget Message, which will be entirely in detail, but I will discuss it with you before it goes down to Congress. 
 No. 
 Probably the following week. 
 Well, probably the foreign policy message will come at a later date. Of course, every subject will be included in the Message on the State of the Union. It will have to be. 
 Well, I hope it won't run over 30 minutes, because Congressmen get tired listening to an outsider speak when they talk over 30 minutes, although some of them can talk for 3 hours without help.  
 Yes. Yes. I will let you know, just as soon as I am ready to make the announcement. 
 I will appoint him just as soon as I can.  
 I will discuss that in the Message on the State of the Union.  
 It was in the nature of a courtesy call. We had a very pleasant visit together. Discussed all the subjects in which labor is interested. 
 No. No, I can't comment on that now. That is a legislative matter. I am going to have a meeting of the Big Four tomorrow, and we will probably discuss that procedure.  
 They will come in to see me tomorrow, and I will discuss everything on the waterfront with them. 
 The two leaders, Mr. McCormack and Senator Lucas. 
 Well, I think you can make a better guess on that than you did on the election.   
 No, I didn't say it would go in the State of the Union Message. said it would go in messages to the Congress, at the proper time. That matter doesn't come up until the 1st of April. 
 I will answer that question in the message. 
 No, I haven't any plans.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
