  Gentlemen, I have no special announcements to make, except that I was in the White House and the Blair House since 6:30 last night 1 --[laughter]-and if you have any questions, I will be glad to try to answer them.  1 President Truman flew to Pinehurst, N.C., on January 12 to visit Secretary of State George C. Marshall who was convalescing from an operation. The trip had been kept confidential and came as a surprise to both Secretary Marshall and members of the press.    I can tell you nothing.  2  Sir Oliver Shewell Franks, British Ambassador to the United States.   None that I know of.   Yes.    Oh yes, lots of them under consideration.    Not necessarily.    Mr. Forrestal's remarks say just what they mean. I think he made it perfectly plain. 3   3  According to reports in the press, on January 11 Secretary of Defense James Forrestal stated, after an interview with the President, that he expected to remain in the Cabinet.   Mr. Forrestal's remarks were perfectly plain, and I think they mean what he said.    That's right.   The Treasury considers the middle and upper brackets begin about $6,000 a year, from there up to about $25,000 or $30,000 a year. It's a matter of point of view. If you are getting $6,000 a year, you probably would consider $10,000 the--[Laughter]   I have no set view on the subject. I think if a man has got brains enough to know enough about the tax laws of the United States to make more than $25,000 a year, he is probably entitled to make it.    I don't want to get into any controversy between committees of the House and the Senate. I tried to make my position perfectly clear in the Message on the State of the Union.  4  This refers to different approaches to the problem of repealing the Taft-Hartley Act and substituting an amended Wagner Act in its place. Under the one-package plan, the repeal and the substitution of an amended Wagner Act would be accomplished by a single bill. Under the two-package plan, the Wagner Act would be substituted for the Taft-Hartley Act by one bill, and amendments to the Wagner Act would be the subject of a separate bill.   Lesinski, 5  yes.  5  Representative John Lesinski of Michigan, Chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee.   Yes.   I prefer to let the House and the Senate settle their differences without my interference. I don't like for them to interfere in my business. And they are the legislative branch of the Government.    It isn't true. Our position on the Palestine situation was stated on November 20th by Mr. Jessup before the Assembly in Paris. 6  That is as clear a statement as it could possibly be. That is as far as it is necessary to go, if you will read that statement by Mr. Jessup before the Assembly on November 20th.  6 The statement on Palestine made in the Political and Security Committee of the United Nations General Assembly by Philip C. Jessup, United States delegate to the General Assembly, is published in the Department of State Bulletin .   You can assume anything you like.    Wait a minute--let this young man go ahead.   I have no comment to make on that.   I have no statement to make on the conversation with the British Ambassador. I want you to read the statement before the United Nations Assembly as to our position on Palestine, and it will answer every question you have asked me.   Yes.   Oh, no--oh, no. The reconnaissance planes--there wasn't a word of truth in that at all.   Jessup's statement covers everything in connection with our statement on the situation in the Near East, and that is being handled by a United Nations Commission now, of which we are a member. That is the reason I am not commenting on these questions.    I haven't heard about it.    What was it you wanted to ask?   Wait!--they're coming too fast for me.   They are not. What was your question?    The cutback was based on the recommendations of the Veterans Administration.  7 Dr. Paul B. Magnuson, Chief Medical Director, Department of Medicine and Surgery, Veterans Administration.   I think that the Veterans Administration survey was accurate and correct, and I shall stand by that recommendation of the Veterans Administration.    Do you know for sure that there were objections to Dr. Frank Graham? I have the utmost confidence in Dr. Frank Graham. I think the Atomic Energy Commission also concurs; and I think it's a great mistake that anybody objects to his being approved. At least, I hope it's a mistake, because they would be wrong.    The budget, as it was sent to the Congress, ought to be supported by all the sections of the defense departments.    The--Secretary Marshall and I had a very, very pleasant visit together. He enjoyed it, and so did I.    No, I can't. I will tell you definitely about that. He doesn't want to return there, but he will if it becomes necessary, as the Ambassador's health is not very good at the present time. I don't want to make any comment on what he is going to do yet. 8   8  The President's letter accepting the resignation of Walter Bedell Smith as Ambassador to the Soviet Union was released by the White House on March 25, 1949. General Smith served as Ambassador from March 22, 1946, through March 25, 1949.    I hadn't heard about it.    I think I included the civil rights in the Message on the State of the Union, and I think it's covered. The civil rights message was referred to and made a part of the Message on the State of the Union.  9 See 1948 volume, this series, Item 20.   This time.    No, I don't.   Why don't you ask a straight question ?   No, there will not. Mr. Acheson won't be sworn in until after the inauguration. That will answer your question there.   Well, you will just have to wait and see. You never can tell.    Yes.    It's--I don't want to answer that question in that manner in which you have asked it. I think the proposed size of the Air Force is an adequate one. That's the way I will answer your question. Pause]   What's the matter? Have you run out of questions? 
