 I have no announcements to make this morning, so I suppose it will be a question-and-answer program.    They are working on the plans.   I can't answer that now. I have no comment to make on that. We will make that decision when this trial is finished.    I will say this to you, that that is one time I made an error. I was completely surprised when I saw Mr. Knutson's letter in the press. It was published before it reached me, therefore it was not necessary to answer it; but that was a mistake entirely--and the President makes them as well as anybody else.  I would like Mr. Knutson to tell me, however, how he could make that 20 percent cut.   Yes. I had been discussing the matter with three or four people previous to that, and it was just an error on my part, that was.    That has been customary, of course, but the Canol project is a dead horse--was completely investigated and the report was made on it when I was chairman of that committee. Those investigations and reports were made for the purpose of preventing the digging up of dead horses. It doesn't do any good to dig them up any more. It has been decided to dispose of it.   He hasn't--   he hasn't asked me that. I don't think he will.    That has all been published, Felix. 1    1 Felix Belair, Jr., of the New York Times.   The substance of it was all made public. All I was trying to do was get a hundred thousand Jews into Palestine. Still trying to do that.   It is still under consideration.    I had not thought of calling any special session.   No. No, that's the first time I have had that suggestion. I think these Congressmen are entitled to a campaign from now until election time, without interruption.  That's what I propose to let them do.    That was under discussion, and I would rather not make a comment on it until we decide on the whole program--    I have not.    It suits me all right, and I think it will be elected. That question about Mead now has answered itself. Remember that adroit question that was asked me at my news conference?    Well, I am going to say all the nice things I can about him. I think he is a good administrator.   No. I haven't made any definite plans as yet.   I don't want to answer that now.    I didn't understand that?   That matter has been discussed, and it is still in the hands of the Secretary of Labor. Hasn't been put up to me as yet.    Yes. They are still going on in London.   NO, We are not. We are not interested in that.    When it comes up to me.   Probably will. That is still under consideration by the Labor Department.  That's on the maritime strike. He wanted to know if I was going to take any action on it. It hasn't been put up to me yet. It is still in the hands of the Secretary of Labor.    I have no comment to make on that. I am not even considering an extra session of Congress--if that's a definite answer enough.   There is no emergency facing us now that necessitates an extra session of Congress.    I am not well enough informed on that to make a comment at this time. I am not--I have had no experience in the stock market on my own behalf. But of course I am interested. I am very much interested. But I would rather not comment on it at this time, until I have more information.  That's all right.
