 I have no special announcements to make. I will try to answer questions.  
 I haven't seen the bill. I haven't read it, but my position on FEPC has been made perfectly plain in various messages I sent the Congress.  1 On February 23 the House of Representatives passed a bill  to establish a Fair Employment Practice Commission and to aid in eliminating discrimination in employment because of race, color, or creed. The Senate failed to complete action on a similar bill  when moves to invoke the cloture rule were defeated on May 19 and July 12, 1950. 
 I have always thought so. 
 I said I have always thought so.  
 Well, I don't know what result he hopes to obtain. We have made every approach possible through the regular channels, and through the United Nations, in an endeavor to reach such an agreement. And we haven't been able to reach it. I don't see any reason for what they call a new approach. They are expecting something highly dramatic, some great showpiece to take place. I don't think the matter can be settled in that manner, and I have never thought so. 
 Well, I don't know about that. I don't know what he is thinking about. 
 Yes, I thought I made it very clear. I tried to put it in the simplest English possible in that Alexandria speech, and I think it covers the situation very well. 2    2 Item 42. 
 No, there has not.  
 The matter has been under consideration ever since Mr. Taylor resigned, and no decision has been reached as yet.  
 Well, I am exceedingly hopeful that a great many Republicans will be replaced by Democrats, and of course, if Senator Wiley is up for election, that would include him.   
 What's that? I don't like a one-party system. We haven't two parties now; we've got about four.  
 I think I issued very clear instructions on that some time back. It still stands. I have told the Committee--the Foreign Relations Committee--that I would cooperate with them in every way possible to disprove false charges that have been made by Mr. McCarthy.  
 Well, there's the Dixiecrats--half Republican; there's the Republican Party; and there's what's left of Mr. Wallace's party; and there's a real national party, the Democratic Party. 
 Oh, they don't count. 
 They have never had an electoral vote in the history of the country.  
 The coal crisis is in the hands of the courts right now, and I have no comment to make on that question. 
 I hear from them every day. 
 No comment will be made on the matter. It's in the courts now. I told you that to begin with. I can't comment on it. It's a matter for the courts.  
 I will answer that question when it comes up. You needn't put words in my mouth 
 --as I told someone else the other day. 
 I am not saying anything further to what I said in my directive to the various departments, which is very clear. 3 
 That directive still stands.  3 For the President's directive of March 15, 1948, on the need for maintaining the confidential status of employee loyalty records, see 1948 volume, this series, Item 50. 
 That is correct. 
 That is correct. 
 That part of it still stands. 
 Not the slightest in the world. You can't very well--I was going to say, it's pretty hard to serve a subpoena on the President of the United States.  Who is going to enforce it?  
 Well, I have been invited to dedicate the Grand Coulee Dam, which is now finished--I think it has all the generators in, and in place. And there has been some discussion about my making a trip out there. No decision has been made on it, but I think your guess is right, that if we do go there will be some stops along the road. 
 That is correct. Probably be some whistlestops on the way there and on the way back. 
 No decision has been made on that yet. I have been invited. Like every other invitation that I get--and I get many every day to go somewhere--I have taken it under consideration. 
 You will have to make up your own mind on that. That is for you to decide.  
 I told her that is for her to make up her own mind on that. That is for her to decide, whether it is nonpolitical or not. 
 Oh yes, it can be done very nicely. Any speech I make or any statement I make is political. It doesn't make any difference whether it is made here or whether it is made in Alexandria, Va., or in New York, or on the back platform of a train. 
 That is political, too.  That is political, too. 
 Well, here is the situation you have got to take under consideration. The speech that I made in Alexandria was on the bipartisan foreign policy. That is not supposed to be a matter for local political discussion. That is to be treated as if it was a speech like the one I made once before, which was purely a domestic political statement of my views and how they ought to be carried out. I was speaking in Alexandria for the whole country, and not for any political party. 
 Well, there are lots of definitions for it. 
 I think I have told you that a politician is a man who understands government. Usually, if he understands it well enough and has made a reputation, as he should have, he will wind up--when he is dead--by being called a statesman. You have to have your own definition of what to call things political. It depends altogether on what your viewpoint is. If you are for it, it is statesmanlike. If you are against it, it is purely low politics!   
 That is purely political.  
 He wanted to know how I would define Senator Byrd's statement in yesterday's Baltimore Sun--the Sun is a great supporter of Byrd--and I said it was purely political.  
 The half-Republican Party? Well, the Republican Party is split in two. It has two wings, just like the Democratic Party does.  
 I don't think it is possible to get the returns immediately. The last time the British had an election, it was 3 days before they decided to count the vote. And I think we will have to wait until the report is made by the people who count the votes. They don't count their votes like we do. They impound them and then after they have been collected they count the votes at a later time, after the election.  
 Yes I do, and I think it is also handicapped by a lack of appropriations, principally.  
 I am protected by the Government of the United States. You ought to know that it has been tried. You remember a certain statement by a gentleman named Jackson? "The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court has made his decision, now let us see him enforce it." You remember that, don't you ? 
 What's that?  4 The bill was referred to the Committee on Education and Labor. It was not reported out by that Committee. 
 I have no comment on that. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
