 I didn't have any special announcements to make to you today, but since you haven't had a press conference in the afternoon this week, I thought I had better let you come in and ask some questions. You might have something to say to me.  
 Well, thank you--thank you. 
 A thousand dollars. From the White House Correspondents' Association to the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis--a thousand dollars. Well, thank you. On behalf of the Foundation, I thank you. And I will see that that gets into the proper pocket.   
 I am not familiar with it. I can't answer it. I don't know.  
 Is that the one that breaks up the combination ? 
 I am not familiar with it, but I want a freight rate structure in this country that is fair to every section of it. I don't like the structure that has been in effect in the country with different brands in different parts of the United States. I have spent most of my time in the Senate trying to break that.  
 No, but they will be announced. I think we will be in a position to announce it Monday.  
 Yes, we are. We are trying to make some arrangement to channel building materials for residence purposes. I thought I would have a special announcement to make to you this afternoon, but we didn't get it ready. 
 No. No. We just weren't ready. 
 Well, see that building materials are used principally for residence purposes. Might use priorities. Probably would be better than channeling.  
 The Democratic Committee has made no such recommendation to me. We didn't know here--neither did the Democratic Committee--until we saw his name in the paper.  
 I am not quite ready right now with them. I can announce it in a very short time, but I can't give them to you today.  
 I am not familiar with any specific instance. I have heard rumors to that effect, but rumors you can't give as facts.  
 No comment.  
 Well, let me see. I think in 1935 I succeeded in getting a bill through the Senate to regulate drivers on interstate highways. That bill was passed by the Senate and was killed three times in the House. It had to do with proper examinations for drivers, before they would be allowed to drive on highways in interstate traffic.  I still think some sort of regulation is going to have to be made of these drivers, either by State laws such as the ones they have in Massachusetts and I think in four other States in the Union--or five--or else the Federal Government is going to have to take a hand in stopping these accidents.  Up to 1935 there had been more highway deaths from accidents than we had lost men in all the wars we ever fought, beginning with the Revolution. There had been a property damage rate of about a billion dollars a year. That is a tremendous price to pay for crackpots to drive automobiles.  
 It will be sent to the Congress in the form of a message, and then the Congress will have to act upon it. 
 It will be some time in the near future. We can't set the date now.  
 No. The first I had heard of that view was when Mr. Hurley made the statement to the Senate committee.  
 If they have, it has never been officially given to me. They never asked me for a $6 billion loan, since I have been President. 
 No.  
 No, I haven't; but I hope the House will pass some sort of bill so we can get the conference and probably work out a bill.  
 Yes--yes. I don't know exactly when it will be done, but it will be done sometime soon, as soon as I can get the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the Navy to agree on a date.  
 No. I will have something to say about that in the very near future. 
 I hope so.  
 No. General Marshall has been so busy with other things that I haven't had a chance to discuss the program with him and the Secretary of State. 
 I hope so. I will give you that when the instructions are published.  
 I wrote a letter on that, which was published in today's papers, which covers the situation thoroughly. 1   1  The letter accepting Mr. Houston's resignation, not published herein, was released by the White House on December 7. The letter referred to an apparent contradiction between the law--which required the Government to operate seized properties under the terms and conditions of employment which were in effect at the time of seizure--and a proposed FEPC order concerning the Capital Transit Company In the District of Columbia.  
 We hope to. 
 Some sort of control on real estate prices, I think, is going to be necessary, unless we are going to have real estate inflation. I don't know whether we will be able to do it or not. That is a matter that will have to be worked out after much thought. I don't want to say right now that it will be done, but some sort of arrangement will have to be made to prevent inflation in real estate prices, especially the small residence section.  
 They didn't meet, and I didn't make a recommendation. 
 No, I don't think so. 
 I will announce that on the 12th of December. 
 I will announce the chairman of the Red Cross on the 12th of December.  
 Well, Senator Mitchell was here to discuss the continued operation of those light metals plants in the Northwest, and no conclusions were reached.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
