  I just have one announcement to make, and that is that Kenneth C. Royall will be the Secretary for the Army, and the Honorable John L. Sullivan, the present Under Secretary of the Navy, will be Secretary for the Navy; and Stuart Symington will be Secretary for Air.  The other appointments, under the new bill, are not ready to be announced yet. They will be announced later.  And Mr. Ross has gotten up a picture of the setup for you, which will be handed to you as you go out, along with the life and background of these gentlemen whose appointments are being announced today.  That's all the announcements I have to make.   Well, the law, I think, provides that civilian--civilians under the present War Department Act automatically go under this one. We are having it thoroughly looked up, so in case it is necessary to reappoint them, why they will be appointed.   About the middle of September-sometime around then.   That will be when Mr. Forrestal takes his oath of office.   About the middle of September.    Of course I was sorry to hear of Senator Bilbo's death. I was there for 10 years in the Senate. Used to sit right behind him. Knew him very well. Sending the usual condolences to his family.    No I haven't. I have announced that I wouldn't be able to be present.    I just named the man. Judge, what's his name?  Judge Latta: Colvin.   Colvin. Couldn't think of it. Colvin will temporarily take over that job.   I hope so. I hope they will be ready by the time the act goes into effect--I hope.   That is true.   No comment. No comment. I made all the comment I could on it.   Both before and after.     I had a conference with the whole board in here, and we discussed the difference between the legislative and the executive branches of the Government. The Board and the Council were all in agreement with my viewpoint.    I haven't received any such wire as yet. My position in the matter hasn't changed. If it is ever--becomes a necessity for a special session, I won't hesitate to call it. I don't think there is any necessity at this time to be calling any special session.    NO, I have not.   I don't know whether there was any time set on it or not. I think the idea was to arrive at an agreement as soon as they could. They are still working at it.    Yes.   Yes.   No, I don't. You will have to ask him. He just came in here to pay his respects to me.   NO, he didn't discuss his business with me. I think maybe he will tell you probably what he was in for, if you would ask him.   We just had a friendly visit. I have known him a long time ago, when I went up to Scranton for Frank Walker way back yonder when I was a Senator, and I made a speech for them on St. Patrick's Day; and Mr. Connors was one of my hosts at that time and he was running a paper in Scranton. And he told me this morning that he was the first man that suggested me for Vice President of the United States in 1944. I did not thank him.   This morning, or then, either.     No, I am sure he doesn't care about resigning. He is doing a good job over there.    No. Still making the effort, and those appointments the other day were all interested in getting some concrete action on that subject. I am very much interested in it. I think it is up to us to do our share along that line. I don't think any of our people have any right to quarrel with doing the right thing, for the simple reason that all of them are descendants of displaced persons--everybody in this country.   Well, I proposed it at the last session, and I proposed it at the session before that, and I shall probably propose it to this session.    Oh, he just came in to talk over politics. I had a very nice meeting with him.   That's what he told me.   I didn't say that. No-I am making no announcement.   Entirely welcome.
