 Be seated, please. Good afternoon, everybody.   I have one announcement to make. Mr. Harriman and General Norstad and General Lowe will leave tomorrow for Japan, for a political brief with General MacArthur on the political situation in the Far East.  Now I am ready for questions. 
 Maj. Gen. Frank E. Lowe. He is a Reserve officer.  
 I always do that. I always do that. But the election is not certain yet.  1 Thomas C. Hennings, Jr., defeated Emery W. Allison in the Missouri primary election held on August 1 for the Democratic senatorial nomination. 
 The nomination is not certain because the absentee vote has to be counted, but if it comes out the way you think it will, why I will support the ticket.  
 I certainly am happy about it. I haven't been officially notified that he was nominated. If he is, why I am very happy over it.  2 On August 1 Paul Aiken defeated Carl Rice in the Kansas primary election for the Democratic senatorial nomination. 
 No, I didn't talk to him. 
 Yes. I haven't had reports of any nominations as yet officially.  
 I don't think much of it. That invites a 5 percent rise in prices. If we are going to have a price control authorization, and what goes with it, it should be an authorization for the rollback of prices to a date between May 24 and June 24, on a basis that would set prices and wages during that time--between May 24 and June 24.  If you set an automatic price rise, then you have got to meet an automatic price rise with an automatic wage rise, and you will have a spiral just like we did in the other war. If we are going to have price control, let us have it, and have it in the right way. 
 I think, if we are going to have price control, it is the business of the Government to do the policing. I didn't ask for price control, you understand. They may force it on me, and I will make use of it if it is necessary, if they do give it to me. I would have asked for it, if I thought I needed it--and I will use it if I do think it is necessary. But I hope that they won't set any restrictions on it so that it won't be used for the public good. 
 Authorizing that that be done, if it becomes necessary. 
 No, it is not a legislative program. 
 No. He hasn't talked with me about it at all.  3 On July 27, 1950, Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas was appointed chairman of a subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee empowered "to keep continuous watchfulness over our entire rearmament and preparedness and defense program." 
 I don't know anything about it. I haven't seen the resolution, and I haven't talked with anybody about it, so I can't very well comment on it.  
 I hadn't heard anything about that. I think I would be consulted before that was done.  
 No. Mr. Harriman is going to Japan to discuss the Far Eastern political situation with General MacArthur. 
 No. I have not made up my mind as yet on whether to give him instructions or not. I don't think he needs any, but I will discuss the matter with him. 
 Tomorrow, yes.  
 That's all right. You are free to ask any questions you want, and I will try to answer them. 
 I have not. When Mr. Taylor resigned, that office automatically ceased, because that was a personal representative appointed by the President. Mr. Taylor resigned, and no further appointment in that line has been considered. The possibility of maintaining a regular Minister at the Vatican is under study. 4  4 See Item 16.  
 Yes, it might be a regular procedure.  
 I don't think that amendment should be in the ECA bill at all. It doesn't belong there. There is nothing in the world to prevent the Spanish Government from applying for a loan to the Export- Import Bank, and if they have sound collateral the loan would be favorably considered, I am sure. But that amendment is entirely out of place in that ECA bill, and I hope they will take it out.  
 Who made that statement? 
 Well, I am surprised. I don't think he has any business making any such statement as that, especially if he is the leader of the majority. Just make it plain to him they are not going to resign, as long as I am President.  
 No, I don't care to make any statement on that. 
 No.  
 No, I don't. I am going to urge them to consider it now, because I think Alaska and Hawaii fall in the public interest and for the national defense.  
 He was not invited to the recent Democratic Governors luncheon, and he was not a Governor at that time.  5 James F. Byrnes, former Secretary of State. Mr. Byrnes won the nomination for Democratic gubernatorial candidate for South Carolina on July 12, and became Governor in January 1951. 
 I will cross that bridge when I get to it.  You ask Mr. Byrnes what he thinks about that. He can answer you better than I can.  
 It will include political matters that affect the Far East, and that's about all I can say about it. I can't go into detail on that.  
 No. 
 No, I don't intend to withdraw it. Mr. Hutchinson says he is willing to go through with the fight, and I will back a man up when he wants to make a good fight. 
 Yes, it does.  
 I am very happy over that. I just discussed it with the Secretary of State, just before lunch, and I think the British have made the proper approach. And I hope all the rest of our allies will do likewise.  
 No, I can't. I understand, from what I have heard about it since then, that Mr. Pauley was requested by the Defense Department to go up to the military committee and discuss the matter. He was not requested to do it by the White House. 7    7 On August 3, 1950, Edwin W. Pauley, former U.S. reparations representative to Korea, testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee. His testimony included a statement that in 1948 he had urged war with the Soviet Union when a committee of the United Nations was refused admittance to North Korea. 
 Mr. Chairman of the Committee was mistaken! Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. THE PRESIDENT, All right.  8 Senator Millard E. Tydings of Maryland, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Note: President Truman's two hundred and thirtythird news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4:05 p.m. on Thursday, August 3, 1950. 
