 Sit down, gentlemen, please. Let anybody in who wants to come.  Mr. Ross: In the meantime, we have here mimeographed--prepared by the Budget-a sort of synopsis of it.  This is the so-called Budget Seminar, as you know. The information given here may be used, but without attribution. This is for background purposes only, except where the President may specifically state otherwise. The preliminary statement he will make, however, will be on the record, and copies of it will be made later and passed out to those who wish them, in mimeographed form. \. The statement will be on the record and will be handed out to you in the form in which it is, as a statement. Are you ready?  Well, I am going to sit down and talk into this microphone, because this is--has every chance to be quite a long session.   The Budget which I shall transmit to Congress on Friday is a balanced budget. If our estimates are realized, the budget will be in balance for the first time since 1930. The President sent down a balanced budget in 1938, but the recession came on, if you remember, and receipts fell off, and the relief appropriations had to be increased, and so 1938 finally wound up with a deficit.  It is realistic and as complete as we know how to make it. It is based on a careful study of the needs of the various departments, and the funds required to carry out the obligations of the Federal Government under programs established by the Congress.  It is a tight budget. I believe it is fair to say that no department or agency feels that its needs are fully met. They are all quarreling about the meanness with which they have been treated by the President. In its preparation I instructed the Director of the Budget to require thorough and conclusive justification for every item which he recommended to me. There isn't an article--an item in this budget that has not been thoroughly and completely justified. In every borderline case the decision has been to eliminate expenditures rather than to include them. It has been necessary for us to be more hard-boiled in making many decisions than I like to be. I hope I am not naturally hard-boiled. We have had to reduce sharply requests for a number of programs which in my opinion would be worthwhile were it not for our urgent need to reduce expenditures.   Those of you who have studied the Budget Message have found, I am sure, the answers to most of your questions. However, the table shows the major categories of expense which are included. And they are as follows: several certain fixed charges which will be reduced, and you know how much they amount to? Within just a few millions of $33 billion.  The first category of those fixed charges, of course, is Interest on the Public Debt, Refunds, Veterans Pensions and Insurance, Employees Retirement and Workmen's Compensation, Philippine War Damage Commission, and so forth. That amounts to 4 billion--$10,499 million.   And the next item is National Defense, the Army, the Navy, Terminal Leave for Enlisted Personnel--amounts to $11,256 million.   And then commitments, largely uncontrollable, is the next item in that fixed set up; that is, grants to States and cities, government and relief of occupied areas, international commitments and loans, domestic loans, subsidies and contributions, veterans readjustment benefits and hospital care and administration; and the total for veterans runs about 7 billion, in this budget. And if anybody feels that he can reduce that to any extent, he is much better than I give him credit for being.  The issuance and payment of Government obligations, revenue collections, and net postal operations, legislative, judicial, and the General Accounting Office--that is the pay for Senators and Congressmen--and for charges and things of that sort, and that amounts to $11,228 million. That makes a total of $32,983 million. And the total budget is $37,528 million. I have been told by my staff that this budget has been more difficult to prepare than any ever issued before, and I can believe it.   Corporations and war agencies have been included in detail in the Budget for the first time. Last year we sent up three budgets at different periods of the year--the Annual Budget, the War Supplement, and the Corporation Budget. This year they have all been integrated into one budget. For 4 years the war agencies have been presented in a special budget and in supplements in the spring, and only the preliminary estimate of their total was included in the January budget.   In this year's budget, expenditures and appropriations are grouped under a new functional classification, in order to present to the Congress and the people a clearer picture of the purposes for which Federal funds are intended. I hope the press will use the new classification. We have put the figures for 10 years, 1939 to 1948, on this basis. The new classification is a part of a continuing effort to make the budget understandable in spite of its inherent complexities.  Now we are living in a new age, so far as Government expenditures and taxes and things of that sort are concerned. I can remember, when I was a very small boy, when the first billion dollar Congress came along. I don't think that anybody in this audience is old enough to remember that. That was in 1892, and I remember the terrific campaign that was made for the re-election of Grover Cleveland on that billion-dollar Congress.  Well, now we are living in the days of the $40-billion-a-year--not a $40 billion Congress, but a $40-billion-a-year expenditure for the Government of the United States; and for your information, we are not going back to a billion-dollar Congress. We are going to meet this age as we faced--just as we are going to adjust ourselves to the machine age, which we have not succeeded in doing.   I have got a chart here that is a most interesting thing, that I would like for all of you to look at when we get through. That's  what the balance of the budget, which I didn't read to you, is expended for. That's the executive branch of the Government. You see the President up there in the ring with all the various people who are responsible to him and who have to report to him in operating the Government of the United States. If I should see one of these individuals each day, it would take me 3 months to see them all, right straight along, day after day. Of course, the President works from 5 o'clock in the morning until 12 o'clock at night, every day, and still it is almost impossible to get on top of the things that have to be done.  I have had three separate and distinct messages for preparation for the Congress at this time, for the first time in the history of the layout, and those three messages have to be in harmony. The Message on the State of the Union, the Economic Report of the President, which contains some 54 pages, and the Budget, which is, I think--is thicker this year than it has ever been in the history of the country because of those comparisons that had to be made over the 10-year period. Yet the President is supposed to know all about the contents of each single one of them.  And for your information, he is as well informed as it is possible for one man to be on the subject!  And for that reason I want you to be exceedingly painstaking and careful in the study of this Budget Message. This Summary which has been gotten out for your benefit, I think answers nearly all the questions, technical and otherwise; and then the preliminary statement which is in the first part of the Budget, and which is the Message on the Budget, covers the rest of the situation. I think it has been more clearly set out this year than it ever has been in history, in the history of my connection with the Government.  I have been working on these budgets since 1935. I was on the Appropriations Committee of the Senate from January 3d, 1935, until I became Vice President, and then President; and I have had a lot of experience with those things. And I think this is the most comprehensive budget statement that has ever been gotten out in my memory. And I hope you will study it carefully. It is a very important document and it ought to be read in conjunction with the Economic Report and with the Message on the State of the Union, which was read to the Congress on the 6th.  And now then, any questions you want to ask--I have got the technical staff here to answer them in detail and in total--any way you want.  \. Why don't they? \. Well--  Director Webb: I think Mr. Jones, who is head of our Fiscal Division, can give you the answer on that.  Mr. Jones: There is a footnote, isn't there? That's the two exceptions. Otherwise it does reflect existing \. Because I don't want to take them in there until they are facts. \. That's right. \. It will be. \. I don't think so. If it does, why we will get that legislation, because everybody is interested in that. \. One of them is the postal deficit. One of them counts, the other doesn't. \. That's right.  Director Webb: That's right. \. No. I think you are mistaken. It is included in the budget, which a President has a right to include when he asks for legislation. It is not included in existing laws because it will require a law to balance the postal deficit, if we are going to meet that situation. \. Of course. \. That's it. The President has the right to take into consideration the fact that he is asking for things that will create the situation.  \. No, no. I am including in the Army and Navy budget what the Army and Navy asked for and what I finally concluded to give them. \. NO, I cannot. \. NO. NO, they have not. \. No, no--the Army and Navy figure is what they asked for and what I finally concluded to give them, which is not nearly what they asked for.  \. Well, the--there's a certain subsidy in the Post Office Department. \. Yes, which ought not to be paid by the Government. The people who profit by that subsidy are the ones who quarrel about other people having subsidies. \. I am asking the Congress to meet that deficit. \. No, that is up to the Congress. \. No, I have no figures. \. That has always been a matter of controversy, that's true.  \. Oh, it's--how much was it?--I think about $3 or $4 billion--13 billion they asked for, was it?  Director Webb: No, considerably more than that. Just one minute--I can give you that. It's complicated. Let Mr. Martin give you that figure.  Mr. Martin: The original estimates for the War Department, my recollection tells me, is about 9 billion, two.  THE PRESIDENT. They got 6 billion, 658. Mr. Martin: Yes, sir. \. They will get 4 billion, 423. \. Expenditures.  \. That is correct. \. Well, the additional excise taxes will amount to about a billion, two or three--I think--a billion, two or three hundred million dollars, and my proclamation of December 31st would eliminate them beginning on July 1st. I am asking the Congress to restore them. Congress is talking about taking them off fight now. I don't know what they are going to do. So I wanted to show that even without that we would still be in balance, but if we get that we will have a billion, two or three hundred million dollars to be applied on the debt, which I hope will take place.  Director Webb: The postal deficit, too, you haven't included it.  THE PRESIDENT. Any one of the legislative requests have been included in the figure for arriving at the balance. \. NO it isn't gravy. It all ought to be done, in my opinion. \. In my opinion--only one man's opinion. \. It makes the surplus larger. Would go to reduce the debt which, if we only reduce the debt at the rate of a billion and a half a year--259 billion--will take a long time to pay off.   \. I am hoping the will legislate on the subject and will make arrangements - \. Well, we have got the money. The money is in the Treasury. All it needs is a bookkeeping proposition to transfer it to the general fund.  Secretary Snyder: Not a matter of raising any money.  THE PRESIDENT. It's not a matter of raising any money. \. Manhattan Project amounts to $443 million, and the--what's that?  Director Webb: Occupied Areas.  THE PRESIDENT. 645--amounts to 645 million--that would be about a billion \. A billion, 80 million dollars. \. NO it doesn't. Read the last budget. Doesn't do anything of the kind. Couldn't possibly run that much because we have reduced the number of men from 11 million--more than that--it is less than 2 million now. \. For the Army, and 4 billion, 423 for the Navy. Now turn to last year's budget and see what it was.  1  Page references in parentheses, throughout this news conference, indicate where the subjects referred to may be found in the Budget Message as printed herein ; all other references correspond to the page numbers in the Budget as published in House Document 19 . \. With the same things out as are out this year. \. Taken out here for comparison purely.  Director Webb: Let's let Mr. Martin clear that up.  Mr. Martin: In addition, you must add to that 6 billion, seven in the 1947 column approximately 1 billion, 500 thousand, which represents the amounts which the War Department will expend in 1948 from funds which the Treasury Department had charged the War Department with in the fiscal year 1946. In other words, it's a Treasury assessment there, in order to account for the--for the cash in both European currency and United States currency in the hands of disbursing officers abroad which were charged as expenditures in 1946, but the payments will be made in 1947. \. That's right.  Mr. Martin: --.and that carries Manhattan up to the first half of the year, and the second half of the year when the Atomic Energy takes over. It is included under Natural Resources, both the second half of 1947 and all of 1948. \. I don't think it's really a substantial increase. It's all in one pot is what makes  Mr. Martin: One reason is because the War Department withheld certain replacement work both in facilities and equipment when they knew the atomic energy would be taken over before long; and for that reason the 1947 expenditures are lower than 1948 because they will now go ahead with those increased facilities.  \. That's correct, but--, \. I hope that the time would come when we could have a $25 billion budget. It is not in sight. Not in sight yet. I read you what the fixed charges are now. If there is any way in the world that those fixed charges could be lowered, I don't know how to do it. My--maybe those informed in Congress can tell me.  \. Of course we want the budget to be as low as we can it, and I have cut this one to the bone myself. I don't know how much further the Congress will want to cut it, but I don't see how they can cut it and run the Government.  \. Well, last year, I think that figure last year was 5 million, and before that it was a hundred million. \. That's all it is--for emergency purposes that may come along, and that fund is audited by the Comptroller General whenever it is necessary. It's open to Congress any time they want to see it. \. NO. \. Well, during the war there were--it was all war emergency items that came under it. During the last year the operation of the coal mines and the operation of the Montgomery Ward came out of that fund--and wherever there was a deficit--and whenever it is necessary to-whenever it was necessary to take over any of those things, a fund had to be set up to begin with--to operate. It came out of that money. In many cases it was paid back. There really wasn't a great deal of expenditure. I think in the $5-million fund that I had last year there was about a--one million and a quarter spent for the jobs like the ones I have named to you. \. Goes back in the Treasury.  \. This is a balanced budget. That's right. There are two situations with regard to the budget. One is cash and one is bookkeeping. For instance, if you yourself have a certain income and you borrow a lot of money at the bank, you may take in more than you pay out, but you still owe what's in the bank--what the note calls for in the bank. In the case of the Federal budgets there is a certain cash expenditure, and I will say to you that the cash expenditures and cash intake of the Treasury was greater in 1947 than the cash outgo in 1947, but it is more than 4 billion greater. The income in the Treasury is $4 billion greater. But we still have obligations created in 1947 that have not been paid and have to be charged on the bookkeeping budget. In 1948 the income will be $3 billion greater than the outgo, but we will, according to the bookkeeping figures, we will be within a few hundred millions--we will be over only a few hundred million dollars. It is an actual bookkeeping balanced budget as well as a cash balanced budget, which was not the case in 1947. \. 1947 was a cash balance, but not a bookkeeping balance. \. How do you mean? \. But still those obligations have to be paid.  \. NO. It was the pay to the soldiers. Social security is part of it--social security is part of it.  Secretary Snyder: The reserves set up for social security are part of it.  THE PRESIDENT. The Secretary of the Treasury tells me the reserves set up for social security are part of it, but the big item in the 1947 budget was the terminal leave pay.  \. We retired $20 billion on the public debt, but it was retired out of the cash balance by the sale of bonds.  \. That's right. \. I have revised the budget to its extreme limit so far as I am concerned. There is nothing more I can do to it. \. Well of course, if the situation develops so that we couldn't collect the taxes that we anticipate, naturally there would be a deficit. I am hoping that won't happen.  Director Webb: He is thinking more about figures. You spoke in terms of policy. You seem to be thinking in terms of actual budgeting expenditure receipts. The President in his Message is speaking about budget policy. \. Based on $166-billion national income. \. That's right.  \. It's in National Defense. \. No, National Defense. Mr. Martin: Military expenses.  \. $160 billion, so the Secretary of the Treasury tells me. That's 1947. \. I think 165 is the right figure. \. 1947--165--that's correct. 165 was the figure. \. Fiscal year. \. 166--1948.  \. Well, the public debt at the end of the war was about $280 billion, and now it is $259 billion. So if I can subtract correctly in my head, it's in the neighborhood of 20 billion. We have paid $20 billion in cash on the public debt.  Mr. Jones: The statement says we have reduced the debt from its peak by about 20 billion, doesn't it?  THE PRESIDENT. Yes.  Mr. Jones: And this is a redemption in this year 1947-48 that you are looking at. \. It went up anyway just before the war--then it went to the top just before the Japanese folded up. I think we said in February they folded up in April-then it began to go down, and when we had the last bond drive, we had 25 billion, didn't we ?  Mr. Martin: 25 or 26 billion in cash.  THE PRESIDENT. And we paid it on the national debt. \. No, no. I am talking off the record except for the statement that I made.  Mr. Ross: Except for that part which will be mimeographed.  THE PRESIDENT. It will be mimeographed and handed out to you. \. I am talking to you frankly and freely and I don't want to be quoted. \. Everything I have said. All except what I have read to you is off the record. This is only done for your information, and I am talking very frankly to you because I want you to know exactly what is in my mind on this subject. But I don't want to be quoted on this directly except so far as the statement is concerned.  \. This Message is considered notification. \. Not unless it's absolutely necessary. I might find it necessary to write letters to the chairmen of the various committees. \. This is the particular notice and notification right here.  \. Well, you will have to ask some expert. Tell him what it is--[to Mr. Webb ]--I don't know.  Director Webb: Germ control. \. We wouldn't have had that good question if that item hadn't been in there!  What was that question back there? \. That matter will be explained as soon as we know what is necessary in regard to it. It was an estimate as to what we may anticipate. You gentlemen are as well acquainted with the difficulties in Europe and Asia as I am and know what the--which countries are likely to be the ones that will be benefited by that.  \. I will let the experts answer that for you.  Mr. Martin: This word "fixed" is a pretty relative term. \. That is fixed by legislation, of course.  Director Webb: The only variation in that would be the amount they draw down on the loan. This is the estimate on the amount they will draw during the fiscal year 1948. That was done on consultation with them. \. The amount of the British loan is established by law.  Mr. Martin: I am going to say everything but the last three items have been established by law would be the answer, I think. \. Have to be appropriated for, but it is a fixed charge. You can't get out of it. \. That is the item the gentleman was talking about a minute ago, what we may have to hand out for relief to those countries that can't support themselves. \. No. No, that doesn't necessarily--is not necessarily confined to occupied countries. We don't occupy Greece. \. That's right. \. That is what they will hand out during the year. We estimate that is what they will hand out.  Director Webb: Congress has already provided for it.  THE PRESIDENT. The money is already in the bank. \. It has been committed. It has been committed, yes.  \. Well, I will give him "good" if he can do it. \. In every department, that is. \. NO. \. Three million! You have got to speak in billions when you talk about the budget.  \. No, except in each department you will find an item which sets out what the personnel calls for. You can take each item and add them all up. The Budget Director tells me that the final figure will be 2,100,000 at the end of fiscal year 1948. \. That's the total number of personnel, 2,100,000--the total number of people.  Director Webb: Civilians.  THE PRESIDENT. Civilians who will be on the Government payroll at the end of 1948. \. 37--500--or 700--whatever the total is. Read it! \. You can go through the Budget and pick them all out. They are set out in detail. I haven't got them in my head. All you have to do is read the Budget. I will give you the whole book if you want it. \. I don't know what last year's  Director Webb: About 900,000 is the figure most people use. \. Prewar. \. Yes. It's about--that figure is about correct for fixed charges. \. That's all the civil sections of the Government that are necessary to make it run. The President's Office is one of them, and this row of things you see around here . The President, as I told you, is in the center of the executive branch of the Government. You will have a chance to look at this, and you will see all these things here. \. Congressional employees, and the cost of the legislative government, and everything of that sort.  \. It is, in my mind. I don't know what the Congress will think about it. I have had a terrible lot of weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth over that thing. The Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of War, and the Chief of Staff of the Army and the Chief of Naval Operations have been on my neck from time to time. In fact, I had almost in every one of these instances to personally pass on the amount of money that each department should have, and it wasn't in anywhere--not anywhere nearly in the neighborhood of what they thought they ought to have.  \. Sure. \. This young man says that the next paragraph says it was 900,000 at the end of 1939. \. Fiscal 1948.  \. Well, when the finance Committee meets--I mean when the Ways and Means Committee in the House and the finance Committee meets in the Senate, I will send them the information, if they want it; and I know they will want it. \. I can't say as to that. We are still working on it.  1 George E. Allen, a Director of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.]  \. I don't think that happened. \. No, no, I don't think that happened at all. \. It couldn't have happened--  Director Webb: Let's let Mr. Martin  THE PRESIDENT.__because they were treated exactly alike proportionately. I think--I am sure he has his figures mixed up, because they were treated alike so far as-- \. You experts look at that and see what's the matter with the table.  Director Webb: While Mr. Martin is looking that up, I would like to check one item. You mentioned that the Legislative and Judicial expenditures were down in this General Government group. They have been excluded in the--  THE PRESIDENT. They are not in the lower group. I said Judicial were in. They are not. It's only this big table here that's in the middle group.  \. That's true. Everybody who rides at Government expense ought to pay his way. We have been hauling a lot of people around all over the world, including your boss.  \. And I think he ought to pay his way. \. That also has to do with airways. \. Yes. \. Everything. \. Well, why not? I am making Congressmen and Senators pay their way. \. I think you are right. \. How's that? \. NO, not necessarily.   Director Webb: Mr. Martin will answer your question.  THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Martin will answer your question now. Go ahead.  Mr. Martin: for the Office of the Secretary of the Navy there were several increases offset by some decreases, resulting in a net minus of $10 million. The increase is four and a half million for Miscellaneous Expense, five and a half for Island Governments, decreases of 10 million in Research, and 9 million, 600 for the Petroleum Reserves. War Department, 11 million increase is all in contingencies of the Army. \. There was no favoritism shown in that. They were treated exactly alike.  \. That has been Senator Vandenberg's pet every year to freeze that law. I hope he won't do that this time. \. If this fund is going to remain solvent, the law has got to go into effect. \. That's right. \. It's a trust fund which the Budget Director tells me has no effect on the total budget, but it should be allowed to go into effect so as to make that fund solvent. \. Has no effect on the budget. \. That's right. Those are trust funds and they go into the trust fund figure in the Treasury Department.  \. Can any of you experts tell anything about that figure?  Director Webb: I tell you, if you will call the Budget Bureau, we will get that for you.  THE PRESIDENT. The Secretary of the Treasury says about 21 billion.  Secretary Snyder: Let him check it.  Director Webb: I think it's a little more than that.  THE PRESIDENT. We will send the--we are going to have the Bureau's office open as usual to answer all your detail questions. \. Executive 3300--extension 118.  \. The legislation to restore the Post Office deficit and the legislation to restore these luxury taxes is needed, but it will not--the budget will still be in balance if they don't pass either one of those items. \. That would merely add a billion and a half to the Budget so that we could pay some on the national debt. As I said, with 289 billion, if we only pay it off a billion dollars a year, you and I won't be here when we finish it.  \. You are the expert on that. \. This one is an attempt to be as little confusing as possible.  Mr. Jones: I think it does need some legislation to transfer those corporate funds. Some of it is Federal Reserve, FDIC. Funds are available.  THE PRESIDENT. The money is all in the Treasury. Doesn't affect the budget. \. Might. Might.  Director Webb: Really no controversial issue. The money is there. It's a question of what the Government does with the money. \. That's right. \. The budget is balanced when the President makes the recommendations in the budget for legislation to meet that situation.  Director Webb: There are a good many recommendations here for increases in expenditure. They are all totaled on page M61  under Proposed Legislation. The proposal deals with both sides of the budget.  THE PRESIDENT. You take it off both ways. If they don't comply with what you request you have the situation of expenditures and receipts about coming out even. \. That's all. \. Yes they are.  Director Webb: Up to now, when the Government put up the money for the FDIC, that was charged out as an expense and it has been carried outside. Now, if they pass this legislation and permit it to be paid back into the Treasury, it will be shown as receipts, although the money has been right in the Treasury all the time.  THE PRESIDENT. Certain appropriations are estimated in there. You will come out even, anyway.  Director Webb: If you are disturbed about that, we will give you a statement about it. Give us a ring on it. Come over and see us.  THE PRESIDENT. It's complex if you want to make it that way, but it isn't complex to me. I understand it.   \. I can't tell you. It's a diplomatic secret, and until we find out ourselves--[laughter]. I will tell you one of these days, but not now.   Well gentlemen, are you out of questions? That's a mighty thick book to be over with so quickly.   Mr. Ross: I would like to repeat--may I repeat that the attributable part of the President's statement I will have mimeographed and give out this afternoon. Only that part may be attributed directly.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's ninety-fourth news conference was held in the Movie Projection Room in the East Wing at the White House at 3 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon, January 8, 1947. The President was assisted in presenting information on the budget by Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder and by James E. Webb, Director of the Bureau of the Budget, J. Weldon Jones, Assistant Director in Charge of the Fiscal Division, and L. C. Martin, Assistant Director in Charge of Estimates. 
