  I have no special announcements to make, but I have been trying to work out a situation that would make it more convenient at these press conferences. I have discussed the matter with Mr. Ross, and I will appreciate it if the White House correspondents will appoint a committee to confer with Mr. Ross.  I would like to find a place to hold these press conferences where the acoustics are good and where everybody would have a fair chance to hear the questions and to recognize the one who asks the question, and also to hear the answer plainly. This situation here is not satisfactory, especially to those who happen always to get in the rear ranks. And if you will please confer with Mr. Ross, we will see if we can't make some plan where everybody will have a better chance at these press conferences. 
 I haven't gone into that controversy, so I can't answer intelligently.  1 Joint Committee on Reduction of Nonessential Federal Expenditures, of which Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia served as chairman.  
 That has been under consideration for some time, and we have finally reached an agreement on it. And it has been--I think it has been sent to the Senate for ratification. 2  2 See Item 99. 
 It will be, if it hasn't.
 Not that I know of. 
 Well now, you had better ask the Congress about that. I have been fighting for that for 15 years. If the Congress will perform, why, we will do the job. 
 Not so far as I am concerned. It is public development so far as I am concerned.  
 That's right. And he is-still says he is. 
 He is coming in as the acting President of China. That is the reason he was invited for luncheon. 
 I am not in communication with Chiang. I can't tell you.[Laughter] 
 I have nothing to say on the subject.  
 No, I can't say anything about that because that matter is still pending in the courts, and I don't want to make any announcements or suggest any action until the court has had a chance to decide. 4    3  Judge Richmond B. Keech of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.  4  See Items 49, 50. 
 There has always been a technical draft of all the war powers on hand, in case it is necessary to use them. Nothing new.  
 No, I have no comment on that. 
 I am very well satisfied right where I am now, and I feel .perfectly safe.   
 Ask that question again. I didn't get it. 
 That may be under consideration. It has not been put up to me.  
 I don't know. You will have to talk to Mr. Byrnes on that. He has had a lot of experience.   
 No, he will be treated as all these heads of states are. Whatever he chooses to see and examine. We will furnish him with all the hospitality this country can furnish--as we always furnish it. 
 Oh yes, he has already accepted the invitation. 
 April 12th, I think, is the date.  
 All expired.
 No--fine line to be drawn--we will cross that bridge when we come to it. 
 I can't answer that question. I don't know whether it is or not. I know the situation is very serious. It is an emergency. And that is what the law provides, that in case of an emergency we have to consider certain procedures. We have been following the law to the letter trying to enforce it. 
 No, it is not. I announced an emergency when I appointed the board. It requires the announcement of an emergency, and that board has to find an emergency before the court can act.  
 I don't think that is true. I don't think there is a word of truth in it. You can speculate on anything you like, but I think you will find that the national defense situation is in better shape than it has ever been in times when we were not at war.  
 I think I made the statement here the other day that I was perfectly willing to cooperate with the committee in furnishing them with information. We will cross the loyalty file business when we get to it.  But just for your information, if people really were in earnest and had the welfare of the country at heart, and they really thought that somebody in the Government was not loyal or did not do his job right, the proper person with whom to take that up is the President of the United States.  And the President of the United States is the only one who has taken any concrete action on any of these things. The appointment of this loyalty board, and the screening of employees when the word got around that there might be some disloyal ones among the employees in the Government, was done by the President.  The prosecution of the Communists in this country for disloyalty and sabotage has been carried on at the direction of the President. I don't think anybody else has made any concrete endeavor to get to the bottom of this thing except the President of the United States and the executive branch of the Government.  
 As affected by what?
 I think that the loyalty program was worked out with civil liberties in view. And I think if you will follow the procedure that was followed by the loyalty investigations, you will find that nobody's civil liberties have been infringed, and nobody's civil liberties will be infringed. I think I made that perfectly clear when I was talking to the district attorneys and the law enforcement officers who were here the other day. If you will read the speech, 5  I think you will get the fundamental basis on which I am trying to uphold the Bill of Rights. That is one of the most important--I think the most important part of the Constitution of the United States.  5 Item 37. 
 That is a very liberal gesture on the part of the Senator.[Laughter] Pete 6   has been trying to ask a question.  
 I have no comment on that, Pete. What was your question?  6  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  7  Senator Brien McMahon of Connecticut had proposed that the United Nations General Assembly hold a meeting in Moscow. 
 I think I made it perfectly plain that I am not going to Moscow ever. The door is open here for anybody that wants to come to this country, but I am not going to Moscow. 
 That is correct. 
 Why certainly not--certainly not. I will object to nothing that will contribute to the peace of the world. I will cooperate wholeheartedly with anything that will contribute to the peace of the world. I think I have made that perfectly plain all the time. 
 Well, I would like to, very much, but I can't accept right now, definitely. 
 So I understand. 
 I can't make any commitments for any trips away from Washington at the present time.  
 That is under contemplation, but when the decision is made, why it will be announced in plenty of time so that you can get your grip packed.   
 I didn't interpret it-[laughter]--plenty of people that will do that for me.  
 I had my say about that in the Message to Congress on the State of the Union. I am still behind that message.  
 I mean that I will never go to Moscow while I am President of the United States. That make it perfectly plain? I hope I will have a chance to go them when I get through being President.  I would like to see the place. 
 Well--[more laughter]your guess is as good as mine.  
 No comment. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.  8 Dr. Klaus Fuchs, German-born official of the British Government's atomic energy establishment, who was sentenced on March 1 to 14 years in prison for disclosing atomic secrets to the Soviet Union.
