 Please be seated.   I want to open this conference up by telling you that I don't intend to answer any questions on the steel controversy, so you won't get a book full of no comments. Now you can ask me about anything else you want.  
 No.   1  William O'Dwyer, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. 
 Not true.  
 I think very highly of Brier McMahon. I think he is qualified for the job. Looks like we are going to get some good candidates in the field. Brier McMahon is all right. 
 I would say no. I made that very plain in the statement that I made. 
 No. I would not run. 
 Well now, that is a question for him to settle. He is another good man. He would make a good President.  
 He is coming, I think, to the White House for luncheon tomorrow, isn't that correct? I believe it is tomorrow?   2  President Anastasio Somoza.  Joseph Short : That is correct. 
 The President of Nicaragua, Mr. Somoza. His daughter, who is the wife of the Nicaraguan Ambassador   3  here, is a schoolmate of Margaret.   3  Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa, Nicaraguan Ambassador to the United States.  
 I haven't read Mr. Wilson's comments, and I have no comment to make.   4  Charles E. Wilson, who resigned as Director of Defense Mobilization as a result of differences with the President on the steel wage-price policy. See also Item 70. 
 Not necessarily. 
 No, that isn't necessarily it. It would be better, I think, to wait until we get these big controversies settled before a successor is appointed.  
 I think he answered the question amply yesterday in his press conference.  5    5  The statement of Secretary of State Dean Acheson at his press conference on April 30 on the protests by the United Kingdom against increased use by the United States of trade agreement escape clauses is Published in the Department of State Bulletin . 
 No, I am not. I don't think there's any such a trend.  
 When the bill comes to me for action, then I will tell you exactly what I will do.  6  I can't make any advance promises on what I might do.   6  For the President's statement upon vetoing the bill concerning title to offshore lands, see Item 146. 
 No, I will not.   6a  G. A. Smoot, a former postmaster at Salt Lake City, Utah.  
 Of course I would. Of course I would.   7  On June 2 the Supreme Court ruled the seizure of the steel plants unconstitutional. 
 Why certainly. Unimpeded. I have no ambition to be a dictator. All I have been trying to do is keep the country running.  
 It has not been put up to me. I am hoping they will settle it. They are very close to settlement.  
 No comment. 
 I am not ready to make the announcement on that at this time. I am going to do everything I possibly can to get the matter straightened out, of course. What I want to do is to produce steel. We need steel. Steel is what I have been trying to get all the time. Nothing else.  
 Yes? 
 If I refuse the nomination, I couldn't be elected.  
 Well, he was quoting General Sherman. He .wanted to know if I would go on and finish the sentence as Sherman did--if elected he wouldn't serve. I said if I do not accept the nomination I can't be elected. And that ends that.  
 Well, I can't answer that without going into the whole thing in detail, and I don't want to do that while this matter is pending. I am going to take every action possible to get steel. 
 I am going to take every action possible to get steel.  
 Well now, we can't answer that question until we have the final decision. It may require legislation. We'll see. 
 I don't know. I can't answer that question.   Mr. President, there have been reports that a couple of Senators, anyway, have been sitting on postmaster nominations pending congressional action on the reorganization plan which you sent to the Hill.  8  Do you approve of such action?  THE PRESIDENT. I don't know anything about it. I sent a reorganization plan down hoping that it would be accepted, .and I think that will answer your question; but I don't know anything about action by individual Senators.   8  See Item 85.  
 Yes. His message ported to me by the Secretary of State this morning. He said he found Mr. Oatis in good health, that he had had a recent haircut and had had some dental work done, that he had not been hungry, that he had gotten to the point now where he could sleep. We are doing everything we can to get him out, and we are going to continue just that.   9  Ellis O. Briggs, U.S. Ambassador to Czechoslovakia, had been allowed to visit William N. Oatis, an American newspaperman imprisoned in prague on a charge of espionage. See also Item 49 .  
 Go ahead, Pete.  10    10  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
 Wait a minute. 
 I will let you answer the question, Pete. 
 I can't answer the question-at the present time. I will tell you about it later. 
 I have no comment.  
 We haven't gotten to that point as yet.  
 I have had no official communication on the subject, so I can't comment on it.  
 I can't. I can't answer your questions on steel, and you can dodge around all you want to, now, you're just wasting time. I will talk to you about anything else.  
 Oh no, he's not anything of the kind. He's in perfect health. He's as fine a man as ever walked. I have told you that time and again. He's just beginning to find out what happens to a candidate.  That's mild to what he will have to face a little later on.   11  General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower.  
 I don't know anything about it at all.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. All right.
