  I want to call your attention particularly to this memo sheet, which sets out as nearly as possible what the budget totals are, and how they are allocated; and there is a statement on the second sheet which explains the situation as well as it can be explained.  The budget this year is larger by a great many billions of dollars, on account of the fact of the defense program that we are trying to implement both here and abroad. The expenditures for local government have been decreased about $1,100 million--as you will see on this sheet--and we are making further efforts to eliminate what we consider unnecessary expenditures. But when a person goes to work and makes wild statements about how many billions of dollars you can take out of the budget, you can be morally certain that he knows nothing about the figures in the budget.   If you remember last year, we published a small summary of the budget, and explained exactly where the funds came from, and where they went. We will have that same booklet out in about 2 weeks, for your information and guidance.  I don't mind people being honestly against what I may believe to be the right thing, but I would like for them, when they discuss the thing, to at least know half as much about it as I do.  Now, if you want to ask any questions, I will be glad to try to answer them.  \. That refers principally to the expansion of plants that will have to produce this defense supply. The Defense itself, under the general defense appropriation, has authority to create whatever production is necessary to meet the emergency. That is what that means.  \. It is that same old argument between the anticipated budget and the cash budget. \. I thought maybe I could get you on that.  \. That is an estimate. \. That's correct. \. No, that is in addition Director Lawton: That is in addition, yes. \. That is a good exercise in arithmetic for you. \. It doesn't show it as a separate figure. You have got to take the authorizations and figure out how much are going to be paid for in 1951 and 1952. Then, what is left of it will go into this 60 billion.  Director Lawton: Just as an example, the obligational authority in 1951 is $87 1/2 billion, present and proposed. You will spend in 1951, 47, which leaves a 40 billion carry-over to start with. \. All of it will. All the authority either has or will be authorized by the Congress. \. Can't spend money without an authorization. Secretary Snyder: He meant this year. \. Maybe I didn't understand your question. Ask that again. \. Yes. Director Lawton: At least. I can give you that exact figure, if you will call later on. It is in here--in the tables. \. I imagine that they will be. That is cash now. I don't know that it is in the authorization because we can't tell how the developments will work out. That is anybody's guess.  \. That is correct. It is in there.  \. That is for 1952--1952. \. I will have to look and see. The billion, so I am informed by the Budget Director, are supplementals that went into this last session, and the 800 goes to the 1952. \. Give this fellow a chance, he has been trying to get up for 10 minutes.  \. You will have to ask that question again. \. That means just what it says. \. Strictly for defense.  \. Those amounts that are going to be spent in 1951 are included. \. 54.181--it's on that memo sheet.  Director Lawton: It is included in that. That is the difference between the present appropriations and what we have shown here as the amount that will be appropriated during the fiscal year.  \. 221 is correct.  \. Well, that is a matter for the Congress to decide. I hope that they will take a position as soon as they possibly can. \. I shall recommend that they start as quickly as the Congress will agree to have it done. I hope it will be the first of the year.  \. Increased income, not inflation. \. The receipts go up automatically every year after income.  Secretary Snyder: With the rate of increase and the anticipated defense burden of spending that comes from. \.  Give Joe Fox 2  a chance. What is it, Joe ?  2  Joseph A. Fox of the Washington Evening Star. \. What's that, Joe? \. I know what you are talking about. I will answer that question in my tax message, Joe.   \. The excess profits tax was a retroactive tax--December 1st or first of the year, if I remember correctly. It is a precedent that can be followed. \. Yes, I would like to have it take effect on January 1st. That is perfectly plain. \. That applies to anything that is made, I hope.  \. Turn back to the first page, and you will see right in the middle of the page exactly what I am claiming. It is 1,082 million--that is correct. \. In the center of this sheet.  Secretary Snyder: You have to learn arithmetic. Subtract the right figure from the left, and there it is.  THE PRESIDENT. Right in the center of this mimeographed page it's a little bit different-you will find a figure over in the right-hand corner of 19,084 million. Next to that, you will find 20 billion, 166. If you subtract that figure from that figure, you will get the figure I gave you.  \. That is the Brannan plan. That states it very clearly. It took you a long time to dig that one out!   \. 11 1/2 billion is set out there as having been cut out of this budget, in asking for appropriations for the things that are not directly considered necessary for defense. \. Yes, I will pinpoint them for you--133 items. If you will ask the Budget, I will make a list of them. Forty percent of the items in the budget have been cut back--forty-two percent.  Secretary Snyder: Forty-two percent and 135 items, isn't that it?  THE PRESIDENT. Forty-two percent and 135 items. And you can have a list of those items from the Budget. \. That's right. \. I can't think right off. I will give you a list, and then you will have it, then there won't be any inaccuracies in the total. I can't memorize all those things, because I had to pass on every single item individually. A stack of papers that high-[ indicating ]--I will let you go through them, if you like.   \. Yes, I know where it is. \. Not necessarily. It may be for 20 plus before we get through. \. I am going to ask whatever it takes. I can't set that figure until the Treasury finds out exactly what it will be, then I will ask for it. \. According to this budget, it would. \. I am going to tell you in the message. I am not going to tell you this morning. \. No, the figure has not been decided. But I have made it perfectly plain that I don't see any sense in increasing the Federal national debt when we have got a prosperous country such as we have now, and we ought to pay as we go. I have always thought that. I thought that in World War II. \. That is as far as we can, yes. \. That is my policy--always has been. \. I can't give you the figure, but I will give it to you very carefully when I write this message. \. Well, you make your figure from the figures that are before you. \. That is correct. That is the reason I cannot give you the exact figure now, but I am going to try to give you as nearly an accurate figure as I can. \. Yes, it does, but that has nothing to do with price control matters. That is a matter that will require legislation. It was purposely examined by this last Congress. \. Yes--entirely different. \. No, it is not.  \. No, I do not. No, I do not. \. No, I do not intend to do any revising. This budget is going up just as it is, but we have got to examine the whole situation as thoroughly and completely as we can, and then go up there with an intelligent message, and try to get action on it. That is the object.  \. I don't agree with them, that's all the comment I will make. I think this economy can stand what we are doing here. I wouldn't make the statements I do if I didn't believe that. And I have every assurance from the people on whom I rely for information, that that is the case.  \. Yes. \. As soon as we can get it ready. I hope within the next 30 days.  \. Not necessarily--not necessarily.  \. We will try and have them all put together and mimeographed for you at a later date, but we can't do it between now and Monday.  \. This budget is based on an anticipated deficit of 16.1 or 2, I forget what the figure is. \. No, I said it might be anywhere between 16 and 20. I am not going on record on that. I will give you that in the message. You can ask all those questions you want all the way around, and I will answer them in exactly the same way. \. I don't think so. These estimates have been very carefully made.  Director Lawton: If you will look at page A15, it indicates how much of 1952 expenditures are out of 1952 authorizations, and how much out of prior years--the same for 1951. It's the total at the bottom. \. It's in the green book. The last total on the table.  \. No, they will not. Those appropriations are shown as a defense item-international affairs. You will find it under international affairs. \. It will have to be continued beyond June 30 positively. We had hoped to wind it up on June 30, but conditions are entirely different now from what they were at the time we were trying to wind it up. 1952--what I am talking about is the date in this budget. It is supposed to be wound up at the end of fiscal 1952. \. Never was any question on that; 1952 is when it was intended to be wound up. I think I set that date myself.  \. No, it has not. It's on page M56 . \. Yes. You will find it on page M56. Better watch out, you may get a speech out of me on that.   \. No, no. \. It is based on this budget. Can't tell what emergency may come along. \. It is based on the budget here, as nearly as we can figure it out. That is what the budget is for--the best guesses we can make.  \. June 30, 1952. \. Yes.  \. Yes. \. What is it? \. Of course I am. I wouldn't put it in there if I wasn't going to do something about it. I don't talk through my hat.  \. We will see what that looks like when we get to that point. Then we will talk about it at that time.  \. I am hoping that that will be a pay-as-you-go. That is what I am working for. \. The Budget Director said it was the spending rate as of the end of the year, 1951--calendar 1951.  \. That is correct--that is correct.  \. Yes. Yes, expansion of it. It is practically the same request as was made 2 years ago, and last year.  The Budget Director calls the attention to the fact that it is all set out in my message of last April. 3  3 The President's special message to the Congress on the unemployment insurance system . \. Yes. That part which has not been enacted is what we are talking about here. \. Well, we are always writing letters and telephoning. I don't know whether you would call it a special message or not. There will be some special messages, but not on every item in the request, because some of them will be taken care of without that.  \. No, it means just exactly what it says.  It is very difficult to decide just exactly what is entirely defense and what is not. I imagine that there are some people who would class the White House as unnecessary to the defense effort, and you can go right down through all the rest of the agencies. Those agencies that are set out here, and are justified as making a contribution to the defense effort, are doing just that, or we wouldn't say so. Tax collection is another one. Do you think tax collection is essential to the national defense? You can take a dozen different things. And, of course, those things have to be collected, or you wouldn't have any national defense, if you want to go around and justify it. But that is what we are referring to in that part of the message.  \. When they have those figures in detailed arrangement, so they can furnish them to me--there is some delay on that--they will be available just as quickly as they can be. \. Supplemental budget, so the Budget Director tells me.  Secretary Snyder: You are talking about for 1952 now?\. The Budget Director says he cannot answer that question until he gets the details from the Pentagon.  \. I hope it will be sometime within the next 30 days. It may take longer than that. Depends altogether on how fast the experts work. \. I understand that very well. \. Sixth of February, yes. \. I hope so. I will tell you what the Secretary of the Treasury was saying to me. They are working on a renegotiation act this week. They will continue work on it next week, and as soon as he gets it ready then they are going to start hearings on the tax bill, and the Secretary says we are going to try to have the tax message ready, so we won't be delayed.  \. No, I have not. No, I have not.  \. The Budget Director informs me that it has not yet been broken down between military and economic, but it will be. It depends on how much material we will have to supply, and how much they can supply themselves. And that will have to be worked out as we go along. General Eisenhower can give us some idea, when he gets back.  \. I would call it a $71 billion budget, which I have just done. This is my budget. I signed it. What is in that is what I am saying.  \. M52? All right. \. The message of last April covers that situation, and it is still what I want. \. The Railroad Retirement Act is one special group in particular, and there are all sorts of pension plans in the employ of both State and Federal Governments. That is principally what is referred to.  \. No. \. No.  \. That is correct. If you will just sit down and analyze the situation, the present rate of increase will be 49 million people, veterans or dependents, inside the next 3 or 4 years.  \. The sale of mortgages.  \. A great many of the big industries, Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, all had pension plans. \. No, no. The idea is that the Government approach to the thing should be equal for everybody. Then if they have an additional pension, that is just their good luck. \. No, that has no connection with it whatever. What I am trying to do is to get everybody fairly and equitably covered under the Social Security Act. Then, if they happen to have these pensions, they are just that much better off for it. \. We don't want to take their pensions away from them, because most of them made contributions to these pensions and they are entitled to them; but the idea that I have in mind is to cover them all under social security. Then if they have pensions on top of that, why that is their good luck. \. Every sort of tax that will be necessary to raise revenue undoubtedly will be considered by the experts. I am not considering any kind of special tax myself personally.  \. We sold $680 million worth of cotton, that is what makes the difference.  \. What we have in mind is a GI bill of rights, in the case you refer to, without some of the difficulties we had to contend with in the other that we have had experience with. There were several things in that bill that turned out to be rackets, and some of them are being investigated now for fraud. There is no use going ahead with something that you have had experience with which you know won't work, and I want to see an equitable bill of rights for those people who serve under the present emergency. \. Yes--they are not covered. They ought to be--they ought to be. They are fighting just as hard as anybody did-and harder, I think.  \. Yes, the Postmaster General is working on a program right now that will meet that very situation, and as soon as he has it ready I will give you the figure. The 160 million refers to the Government's use of the postal service. That is the reason it runs to below 160 million because the Government has to pay its share as well as anybody else. That also includes airmail subsidies.  \. Yes, that is correct. \. No, I was not aware of it--I am not aware of it. \. I don't think so, May. 5  They are as patriotic as we are. I hadn't heard that complaint, to tell you the truth.  5 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. Well, I will have to take a look at that. \. Yes.\. May, are you anticipating having that held against you? \. Particularly in defense areas, where increased population in defense areas will soon be. That is particularly what it refers to, and where the rent groups will immediately go to work. \. Well, we will have--I think the Housing Expediter would be the man to make the decision, after a survey. \. It should be. It should be. \. I would like to see them all protected, but I was using that as a horrible example. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fifty-first news conference was held in the State Department Auditorium at 10 o'clock on Saturday morning, January 13, 1951. The President was assisted in presenting information on the budget by Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder and by Frederick J. Lawton, Director of the Bureau of the Budget, and Elmer B. Staats, Assistant Director. 
