  I have no particular announcements to make to you today except that at--a little later there will be a release for morning papers of a report on the food-from the food board--the Cabinet food committee.  Any questions?  
 NO, there are not. 
 The $350 million that was asked for to continue the work that had been carried out by the letter that is contained in this year's budget. 
 And I can't remember what the figure is. 
 That's right. 
 Yes, and we haven't heard--we are making a survey in the Far East now, and I can't give you any accurate data on that until the Far East survey comes in. I think Mr. Hoover made a good report, and that he did a good job on that. 
 That's right. 
 I can't answer that until we have the whole picture, then we will make a survey of it and as soon as-- 
 That's right--that's right.  
 I have no comment to make.  
 Well, I haven't seen Mr. Hoover's testimony, and until I have read the record, I can't comment on it. 
 HOW'S that? 
 Yes, but that does not--the report does not refer to any 350 million. 
 That report is for food for enemy countries. I know that Mr. Hoover recommended that it might be made a charge against the future income of that country so that it could be paid back. There is nothing wrong with that. 
 Sure. 
 We have not yet made up the--have not decided yet how that will be done. I'll find out whether they are going to get it or not before we make any arrangements.  
 I have no comment on that.  
 There is no comment on that report.  
 I stand by the Potsdam agreement.  
 Well now, I can't comment on anything Mr. Hoover said until I see the record.  
 Not at the present. 
 Well, I have no comment on that now. If a place comes along where Mr. Byrnes can be used, and he is willing to do it, of course I will make use of him. I always have.  
 We will have recommendations on that. I don't know how "near future" it will be, but when it is necessary we will make the recommendations.  Q- Does it expire, sir, on June 30th?  THE PRESIDENT. That's right.  
 No comment.  
 I will have a message on the draft sent down very shortly. As soon as that is ready, why I will see that you get it. 
 Selective Service.  
 I will let the message speak for itself.  
 Well now, I didn't know anything about that. That's the first time I ever heard that, Miss May. 1    1  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 Well, I don't remember that comment. I don't remember that comment. 
 Well, I wouldn't like to limit it to four.  
 Well, let's not comment on the Democrats. I am not commenting on the Republicans, you understand. And those four don't necessarily have to be in Washington, Mrs. Craig. 
 Well, I say I am not limiting the four to Washington, so you can go way back in my political career and figure that out.  
 NO, I am not. 
 I have not offered him another job.  
 Mr. Tarver has been recommended by the Georgia delegation. 
 I have him under consideration.  
 Yes, I think we will have that appointment ready to send down very shortly now. I will let you know what it is when I make up my mind.  
 Well, I have been--I was in the Senate for 10 years and I have seen that happen on several occasions, and the member was still approved by the Senate. Mr. Clapp is a career public servant, and a good one, and he contributed as much as anybody else to the success of TVA; and I think that he is 'perfectly fitted for the job, and I shall stay behind him to the finish, just as I am doing with Mr. Lilienthal.  
 I never did have any word from Mr. Bevin.  1  See Item 41. 
 Don't expect any.  
 No comment.  
 I shall take that up in the message, and when the message is ready, I will furnish you with a copy that covers the whole thing.  
 If it becomes necessary to ask for that increase, we will ask for it. We haven't considered it immediately.  
 Will you ask that question again, I didn't hear-- 
 Nothing whatever. Probably.- 
 Just--it might be--it might be retrenchment. I don't remember that detail in the recommendations. There was nothing sinister about it at all. The dollar-a-year men made a great contribution to the war effort, which nobody knows better than I do.  
 The Federal Government owes me 66 cents for a dollar-a-year job which I never did get!   
 I think John McCloy--I don't appoint him-- 
 I want him to be appointed. 
 Yes. 
 I don't think I will have a chance to stop there. I hope to pay that visit there some day, though.  
 Yes I have. 
 Well, I have it under consideration. I never can make a firm appointment until just a short time before I find I can get away. I would like very much to go. 
 Some time in the--next summer. 
 No particular occasion--just a friendly visit.  
 Not that I know of.  
 I have, I think 
--on four different occasions I have stated my position on rent control, and it hasn't changed. 
 I have nothing to say on that. I can tell you about that when Congress acts. 
 I make no deals. When the bills come up here for consideration, I take them on their merits. They are not trade on deals. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's ninety-ninth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 o'clock on Friday afternoon, February 28, 1947. 
