 I have no announcements to make. I will try to answer questions.  
 No, I have no comment to make on it.   1   On June 11 the Senate rejected, by a vote of 54 to 26, a proposal introduced by Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon which would have given the President the seizure powers he had requested .  
 I have no comment. The Army is handling that.  
 I beg your pardon ? 
 There is nothing more to say except what you saw in the paper. I released the letter he wrote me, and my reply.  2    2   See Items 162, 163.  
 Yes, I will--some time Soon.
 Well, I don't know how soon it will take. As quickly as I can make the investigation.  
 I don't know anything about it. I didn't carry on the negotiations. 
 I beg your pardon ? 
 Oh, yes, it was discussed. Nobody ever comes in there that doesn't discuss it. Senator Morse didn't see fit to quote me, and I shall not quote him. 
 They are meeting on that situation right now, and I can't give you an answer until I find out just what the facts are.  
 I have no comment. I think Mr. Taft answered him, I'm not sure.   
 No.  
 Well, now, I would rather not comment on the opposition. When the time comes, I will have a lot of comment to make on all these things, but I am not ready yet.  
 The United Nations is represented over there, and they are constantly reviewing it. 
 NO.  
 What can I do? I can't make it rain--[laughter]--although we have a lot of rainmakers these days. I don't think it's as bad now as it has been previous to this. They had a lot of rain in Texas and New Mexico.  
 No comment. No comment. 
 The State Department answered that, I think, this afternoon. What is it ?  
 I don't intend to discuss tactics and technique in field maneuvers. That is not my job.  
 They have 47 million sets in use. I don't believe they would have that 47 million if we hadn't been a little prosperous during the last 7 years.  
 I shall go wherever the National Committee requests me to go. 
 I can put on a pretty good show myself, television or no television.  What is it?  
 He will make the necessary comment on that.  3  I shall not comment on it at this time.   3  The text of the statement by Secretary of State Dean Acheson is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .  
 It has not reached my desk as yet. As soon as it reaches my desk, I will comment on it and you shall know all about it.  4    4  for the President's statement upon vetoing the bill to revise the laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and nationality, see Item 182. 
 I can't answer that question until I read the bill.  
 I am not in a position to give you an intelligent answer to that. Senator Lucas   5  is a resident of Illinois, and I think he would be better informed on the subject than I am.   5  Scott W. Lucas, Senator from Illinois, 1939-1951.  
 Oh, yes.  
 Now, I Can't Comment on those things. The Army is handling that. That's their baby, not mine. I am in politics.   6  On June 10, General of the Army Douglas MacArthur was chosen by the Arrangements Committee for the Republican National Convention as the keynote speaker of the 1952 convention. 
 Yes, I am Commander in Chief, but I am not exercising that authority in this case.  
 Because I don't want to. 
 Yes, it is--or Springfield, Missouri.  
 The Army will handle the thing as it should be handled, I am sure. I am not interfering with them. 
 I haven't discussed the matter with them. 
 Have not. 
 The Army is handling it. 
 The Army is handling it. I say the Army is handling it. If I am not satisfied with what they do, I will call them down. 
 NO.   You are having an awfully hard time getting to the bottom of this, aren't you? 
 Well, wait and see. Just wait and see.  
 May  7  wants to ask a question.   7  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 I don't know anything about it, May. It is customary, though, when a country asks the acceptance of an ambassador, he is accepted. There is never a question of any we send to them. It's a matter of courtesy. The country has a right to pick its own representatives. We don't pick them for them.   8   Gen. Georgi N. Zarubin, who became the Soviet Ambassador to the United States on September 25, 1952. 
 It is. But it is always customary to accept. I don't know of a single instance all the time I have been in Washington when there has been a discourteous rejection of an ambassador by any country. And I have been here about 19 years.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right.
