 Please be seated.  If you have got a question, I will try to answer it.    Tony 1  told me that Senator Watkins of Utah had suggested a Korean conference between myself and General MacArthur and General Eisenhower.  1 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  I can't see any good purpose to be served by that. They are welcome to talk to me any time they want to.   I do not. General MacArthur is in the Army, and on active duty, and if he has anything that is of use to the Defense Department, he ought to tell them so they can make use of it.   He was quoting me. I made the statement quite some time ago in the campaign. He just quoted me. Not intentionally, however.   Certainly it is. Certainly it' is. He is on active duty and will be the rest of his life. The law provides for that.   They went over them completely and thoroughly, and I read every word of the testimony up there. And the committee did not come up with any suggestions or any advice to me or to the Defense Department.  2 The committee hearings on the dismissal of General MacArthur from his command in the Far East are printed in "Hearings Before the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations, United States Senate, on the Military Situation in the Far East" .   No.  3 For the President's statement upon meeting with General MacArthur on Wake Island, see 1950 volume, this series, Item 268.   I made a 14,400-mile trip to get a lot of misinformation. He didn't even do the courtesy, which he should have done, of reporting to the President when he came back here. I have never seen him, and I don't want to see him.   He should have come to see me and reported, as soon as he got here. Any decent man would have done it.   I think that the Joint Chiefs know all about what is in his mind. If they want to hear it again, why it's all fight with me.   He said the Chinese would not come into Korea, that it would be possible to send a division of the regular Army to Germany for occupation purposes to relieve another division over there by the first of January.  And he also said that the war was over, he was sure.   Well--sure. Read it to them, Jack.  4 Jack Romagna, White House Official Reporter.   This division, you understand, was to come from Korea.  Mr. Romagna:--over there by the first of January. And he also said that the war was over, he was sure.   Why it's in the report that was made when we got back here. I don't think I should say that you can quote me directly.   Paraphrase it. Tony, 5  did you have a question?  5  Anthony H. Leviero of the New York Times.   Yes, it would have involved.--   It would have involved us in all-out war in the Far East, and we have been strenuously trying to avoid that all the time.   We have been making an endeavor to have that very thing take place. That's the reason we have been negotiating all this time to reach an armistice and an agreement for peace; and we haven't been able to reach it because the Communists want to murder the prisoners of war that do not want to go back. We are not going to let them do it, as long as I am President.   Expressing my private opinion, that is what I believe. That is what your question implied, that it was nothing new--didn't have anything new to offer. don't think he has.   Why, certainly. I would put it into effect right now. I want to stop wars just as badly as anybody in the country does. I have tried in every way possible to bring it to a successful conclusion.  I tried to do it without involving us in an all-out war in the Far East.   Yes, certainly. Of course it would. He did not want to see me.   The first thing General Eisenhower did when he came back from Europe was to report to me. And that is exactly protocol.   That is his duty. That is his duty.   That's correct--that's correct.   NO, not necessarily. That didn't keep him from following military etiquette. He missed an awful good chance for a headline by not coming in.    I wouldn't take any, now. It's a little late.   No, there's no reason for me to see him.   I certainly would. Of course I would. I wouldn't be discourteous to anybody. I never have been.  Has the "well" run dry ?  Is that what's the matter?    It was suggested, and I decided that it wouldn't serve any good purpose, it would be just a piece of demagoguery; and that is what it turned out to be.    Yes.    That's correct.   Yes. The announcement of that trip was a piece of demagoguery, and then of course he had to take it after he had made the statement. What's the matter, Tony ?    Well, Roger 6  suggested that maybe some good might come out of the trip. If it does, I will be the happiest man in the world. I hope some good can come out of it.  6  Roger Tubby, Assistant Press Secretary.   That is a very complicated question, and I can't answer it. I have been trying to settle the situation in Korea as hard as I can for the last year and a half.   I am no prophet. I am not making any prophecies. You can draw your own conclusions. What you say is possible, of course.    Yes, I do.   We will have industry members on the Wage Board before the week is out, and we will have a successor to Mr. Putnam, whenever he decides to quit. 7  He is under consideration.  7 Roger L. Putnam resigned as Administrator of the Economic Stabilization Agency on December 22, and Michael V. DiSalle was sworn in to that post on the same day . See also Item 346.   Yes. Had plenty of volunteers for those places. Good men, too.   As far as I am concerned.  Q. Thank you very much.
