 Well, be seated everybody now, and we will start to work. I have no announcements to make. If you have any questions, I will try to answer them.   Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President: They are still shooting, Mr. President, and they can't hear very well.  THE PRESIDENT. I had better stand up. Now I think maybe you can hear better if I stand up.  That's enough. Turn out the lights. All right, now!  
 Korea enters not into the politics of this country at all.  1 At a news conference held in Key West, Fla., on March 19, frank E. McKinney, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, stated that it was his belief that President Truman would not seek renomination if he attained permanent peace in Korea. 
 I say Korea does not enter into the politics of this country at all. Has no bearing whatever on what I may decide to do.  
 In 1945 I favored one, but not in 1946.  2  former Vice President of the United States and former Secretary of Commerce. 
 I do not care to comment on congressional committees. It might not be printable.  
 Repeat the question. I didn't hear it.  3  William Hillman, "Mr. President" . 
 I have no comment. 
 I have no comment.  
 I have never commented on Korea at a press conference, and I can't start it now. I have told you, I think, that any comments from me back here might upset the applecart, and they should not be made. 
 Whatever goes on over in Korea, or any other foreign place around the world.  
 The request hasn't reached me yet. I will answer that question whenever the request reaches me.  4 Representative Frank L. Chelf of Kentucky, chairman of a Special Subcommittee of the House Committee on the Judiciary. See also Items 60, 91.  5 Attorney General J. Howard McGrath.  
 I hope to come back. 
 I'll tell you what I will do, I will answer that next fall.  
 Yes. 
 Not necessarily.  
 I have no comment on either one of them. 
 My duty is to see that we attain our objective in Europe. General Eisenhower is the Kerman in attaining that objective, and he understands the situation, I think, very much better than Walter Lippmann or anybody else.  6 Walter Lippmann of the New York Herald-Tribune.  7 General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower was serving as Supreme Commander, Allied Powers Europe. 
 In my book he is a military man, and is doing a military job in a very able and efficient manner. I am not interested in his political career. He has a perfect right to do whatever he pleases in that line, and I told him that personally. 
 General Eisenhower is in the midst of a very important job. He understands what the situation is in Europe much better than I do from this distance. I have told him that he can use his own judgment with regard to his return. Whenever he feels that it is proper and safe for him to return, he is at liberty to do so. 
 It was confined entirely to his military engagements. And his political associations are his own business. 
 I can't comment on that, for I don't know. 
 General Eisenhower is at liberty to make a report to the Secretary of Defense whenever he deems it necessary, and if he wants to make it in person, he is at liberty to do that. That is customary, always.  
 Tony, 8  all you fellows have been trying to set a date for me. And I will set my own date. And I will let you know in plenty of time so that you can have all the arrangements made for headlines, and everything that's necessary in that case. But I will set the date myself.  8  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 Well, you boys have said it, too, time and again.  
 Well, I can't answer that until I announce what I am going to do myself. 9  Of course, if I am interested in it, it will not be an open convention.  9 On March 29 the President announced that he would not seek reelection . 
 I said if I announced for the nomination it will not be an open convention.  
 There never has been an open convention whenever the President made up his mind that he wanted the nomination.
 That's all right.   I want to ask you a question. I want to know if all you people who are having a vacation the same as I am, are enjoying it, and if you are behaving yourselves while you are having it? 
 Smitty, 10  you always speak for the people by saying "thank you."  10  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. 
 That's the answer to the second part of the question.  I don't know whether that would contribute 
 I don't know whether that would contribute to your enjoyment or not. 
 Well, when I decide to make the announcement on the subject, I will let you know about that, too. 
 I have not in my recollection seen one. 
 Well, I wouldn't want to make that statement flatly, unless I decide to run myself, and then I will have a lot to say about it. 
 I will answer the question when the proper time comes.  
 No, I have not. They are still in conference. 
 I can't make any statements, because they are holding a conference this morning on the subject. As soon as they are ready to report to me, they will, and I will let you know the results.  
 Yes. I am sorry he did not get those powers, because they would contribute to the efficiency of his work, and I think he ought to be allowed to have a chance to do the job.  12 See Items 35 , 36, 44 . 
 No comment on that.  13 Maj. Gen. Harry H. Vaughan, Military Aide to the President, and William O'Dwyer, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico.  
 I have no comment on that. I told you when I answered Tony's question, I think, that I would make the announcement when I got good and ready, and it will be at my time and behest.  
 What pay raise?
 I don't know. I can't answer the question. I recommended it.  
 No comment. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. All right.  14  Governor James f. Byrnes of South Carolina, former Secretary of State, denied the allegation in William Hillman's book "Mr. President" that President Truman had read to him on January 5, 1946, a memo criticizing Mr. Byrnes' failure to report to the President on the Moscow conference. Governor Byrnes stated that had such a memo been read to him at the time, he would have resigned his post as Secretary of State.
