  I have today signed Senate bill 1704, an act to strengthen and improve the organization and administration of the State Department. 1   1 For the President's special message to the Congress on reorganization of the Department of State, see Item 47.  I will submit to the Senate the following nominations to fill additional posts of Assistant Secretary of State-- \. All right.  W. Walton Butterworth of Louisiana. \. Butterworth. \. Yes. John D. Hickerson of Texas. George C.-- \. Megee--M-e-g-e-e. \. The way they have it written here is M-e-g-e-e. \. Should be M-c. Of Texas, yes. George C. McGhee of Texas. M-c-G-h-e-e. Edward G. Miller, Jr., of New York. \. George W. Perkins of New York. Assistant Secretary Saltzman has resigned. And I am also sending to the Senate the nomination-- \. No, I haven't Saltzman's first name. Charlie 2  will have the release for you when you get out of here.  2 Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President.  I am also sending to the Senate the nomination of Adrian S. Fisher of Tennessee to be Legal Adviser to the State Department, which post has been vacant since the elevation of Ernest Gross to an Assistant Secretaryship.  In addition, George F. Kennan of Wisconsin is being nominated for appointment as Counselor for the State Department, to take Mr. Bohlen's place. \. K-e-n-n-a-n. \. He has been an adviser to the State Department in a general capacity, but he is the Russian expert, or has been called the Russian expert.  And Bohlen, who was former Counselor, has gone to Paris as Minister. \. Kennan? From Wisconsin. \. I can't answer the question. I don't know. \. No, they are not. No, I don't think there's--one or two of them that are career men. \. Charlie will give you the information, with the background, where they were born, what they have done, and where they were educated--everything of that sort. \. That will be furnished you in the release.  \. I want to read you a statement, just before you start on that, that will answer a lot of your questions and eliminate a lot of confusion. : "I personally know that the country's position--what the country's position on atomic energy is. We are making good progress. Our situation has been vastly improved in the last 2 years under the Atomic Energy Commission. I deplore the fact that relatively trivial items have been blown up to proportions that threaten the integrity of the program.  3 On May 22, 1949, Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa, ranking minority member of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy and formerly its chairman, issued a statement to the press stating that the Atomic Energy Commission was "staggering under daily disclosure of evidence of incredible mismanagement" and calling for the resignation of the Chairman, David E. Lilienthal. An investigation by the Joint Committee followed.  For the Joint Committee's report, "Investigation into the United States Atomic Energy Commission," dated October 13, 1949, see Senate Report 1169, parts I and 2 . The report concluded that "the committee is satisfied that the investigation discloses no instance where the Commission violated the McMahon Act," and that the investigation, "while fruitless in proving the charges of incredible mismanagement,' has served to highlight the nature of our atomic project and its manifold problems and ramifications, and has further served to bring home to the people of the United States that in operations of such a unique character mistakes and errors of judgment are bound to occur."  On November 23, 1949, the White House released the text of the President's letter accepting the resignation of Mr. Lilienthal as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. Mr. Lilienthal served in the post from October 28, 1946, when he was appointed by the President, until February 15, 1950, when his resignation became effective.  "It is time people stopped getting hysterical when the word 'atom' is mentioned. The plain fact is that the atomic energy program is in good shape, and is in good hands. I hope the Commission will soon be able to get back to work, and that the atomic energy program will cease to be used for preelection campaigns.  "I have every confidence in Mr. Lilienthal."  I don't think I can say anything more emphatic than that.  Does that answer your question?  \. That's in the statement-- \. No, that's my own conversation. \. I have the utmost confidence in Mr. Lilienthal. He has made a good chairman, and I am satisfied with the way he has been handling things. \. I don't think he has, but we'll have copies made. \. The "red herring" was used in an entirely different connection, and it was exactly correct when it was used. \. I don't know whether it does or not. Let's wait and see.  Do you know what the definition of "red herring" is ? \. Some of you didn't seem to know. It is something that is blown up to take the place of something under cover that somebody else wants to do, that isn't exactly in the public interest. So you won't apply that term to this, yet.  \. We will wait and see. \. I certainly do.  \. I am sorry that they recommitted it. I was very much--I would have been very highly pleased if it had passed. It had been worked on very carefully, and was a scientific approach to the service pay of the Army, Navy, and Air Corps.  \. No, I am not.  \. That has been under discussion ever since I have been in the Senate, and I never did come to a conclusion on. it. Presidential campaigns have been very capably handled by the different political parties. Senator Hatch started to put that in the Hatch Act, but it didn't get in. \. I have no comment on the subject at all.  \. No comment. We always act on bills just as expeditiously as we can.  \. No, I have not. \. He wanted to know if I had abandoned hope of a tax increase, and I said no. \. How's that?  4 Senator Scott W. Lucas of Illinois, Senate majority leader. After an interview with Senator Lucas on May 24 the press reported that congressional leaders hoped to adjourn the current session by July 31, even if measures given high priority by the administration had to be postponed until the next session. \. I had been in touch with Mr. Lucas, and he tells me that his complete interview was not published, that he had made the statement that there were a great many things before the Congress, and that it might be necessary to extend the session in order to complete the job which is now before them. And that is exactly what Sam Rayburn said, and I knew that they were in agreement because they were in agreement when they went out of here.  \. That is correct. \. That is not true. I asked for both of them.  \. I can't give you any personal preference or priority. I am for everything having priority. \. No. We want to get as much as we can. Doesn't do any good for the Congress to adjourn the 31st of July if we don't get it, either.  \. No, there has not.  \. No, I can't give a tentative date, and neither can anybody else. \. I think Congress ought to finish the job so far as it can; and I think it will. \. Doesn't make any difference how long it will take. \. I am not answering any questions--specific questions about specific bills. My program is before the Congress, and I am for-- \. --I am for all of them. \. Yes, I am. I think it has made progress. All this conversation is to prevent the making of progress.  \. I am not in favor of it. That is not the way for the Congress to act on appropriation bills?  5 S.J. Res. 94 introduced May 19 by Senators Millard E. Tydings and Herbert R. O'Conor of Maryland and by Senator Clyde M. Reed of Kansas. This was one of a number of bills the general purpose of which was to reduce expenditures by providing for an across-the-board cut of 5 or 10 percent in each appropriation bill as enacted. \. I am not for it. I think it is a bad idea, especially with the foreign ministers sitting in Paris.  \. I can't answer that question. That is up to the Congress. I tell them what I think the country ought to have, and it is up to the Congress to work it out. I can't run the legislative branch of the Government. It's none of my business.  \. I can't answer a hypothetical question, Bob. 6  That's all that is.  6  Robert G. Nixon of International News Service.  \. I am not. I appointed him Governor of Alaska, and he is going to stay Governor of Alaska.   \. I will tell you what I will do with it when it comes before me in the form of a bill. When it gets here, I will tell you what I will do with it.  \. I suggested that that be done, and I think it will be done before this Congress adjourns.  \. I have it under consideration. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're entirely welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and eightythird news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 26, 1949. 
