  I want to open the proceedings by making an announcement in anticipation of any questions--that negotiations in the Mexican oil loan will continue. I have been interested in that ever since it came up, and I have had conversations on the subject with the President of Mexico, and eventually I am sure we will arrive at a conclusion that will be satisfactory both to us and to the Mexican Government. \. On my visit there, and on his visit here we had the conversations. \. Ed Pauley has no connection with it whatever. Ed Pauley made an agreement on his own with the Government of Mexico, long before these talks were thought of. \. No interest in this at all. Neither is any other company that I know of, except some that are working to keep it from being negotiated. \. Yes. \. Yes, that's the way it has always been. It has been on that basis all the time.  \. None that I know of.  \. It will be elaborated on at a later date, not now.  \. I certainly was. I wrote him a letter and told him I hoped he would run, so of course I am pleased he decided to do it. \. Oh, about a week ago. \. I don't know anything about it. You will have to ask Governor Lehman. He made the decision, not I. He wrote me and recommended a judge to me, and I answered his letter and told him that I had heard he was going to run for the Senate and I would be pleased if he did. It was personal correspondence--very satisfactory to him and to me both. \. Yes he will. Of course he will.  \. I can't answer that question until after the primary, if they have a primary. I don't know whether they have a primary there or not. \. My opinion is just what it was last January. We are going to put over the fair deal program before we get through, in toto. You know, there are two sessions of the 81st Congress and this, the first one, is not over yet, so you can't draw any conclusions. It will be some time before it is over, I hear.  \. I know nothing about it.  \. Ask me that question again? \. I think that the Secretary of Defense, in the long run, probably will have the final say on that.  \. Of course I am exceedingly happy that the shooting war did not continue. I have been rather disappointed that the war of nerves has been carried on for the last 3 or 4 years, and I am sincerely hoping that eventually that war of nerves will end up in surrender, as the shooting war did, and that we will have peace in the world. That's all I have been working for since I have been President of the United States. \. Just what I said. I can't make it any plainer. \. Wait a minute here! \. It is slacking off. \. It is slacking off. I think it is slacking off very much. Very decidedly slacking off.  \. Just as soon as I am ready to make the nominations, I will announce them in plenty of time so that you will know it.  \. No, I can make no comment on it.  \. I am sorry to say that I don't think the Congressman knows exactly what he is talking about.  \. I have no comment on that. 2   2 Gilmore D. Clark was originally appointed a member of the Fine Arts Commission on April 15, 1932. His term of office had expired on March 10, 1949, and was not renewed. He served as Chairman of the Commission during the final 8 years of his tenure.  \. I told you that this Congress could not be evaluated until it is finished. It has not finished the first session yet, and it still has the other session to go. I think its record will be all right when they are finished.  \. The committee hearing was held up at the Capitol. We will not continue it up here. 3   3 John Maragon, former Government employee and holder of a White House pass, was a central figure in the "five percenter" inquiry.  According to the testimony of General Vaughan before the subcommittee investigating influence in Government procurement, Mr. Maragon had access to the White House and had been observed using the general's telephone to make personal calls. When asked if he thought it was now possible to keep Maragon out of the White House, General Vaughan replied, "I think it is not only possible, but probable."  \. The matter has not come up to me yet. 4   4  See Item 209.  \. Yes, that is just as plain as it can possibly be. I am hoping that the war of nerves will cease, that everybody will get in the mood for general world peace, and when they do that it will just take a very short time to get everything worked out the way it ought to be. The United Nations then will function as it should, and I am hoping that we will have generations of world peace.  \. I have no comment to make. 5   5 On October 18, 1949, the White House released the text of the President's letter accepting the resignation of Garland S. Ferguson as a member of the Federal Trade Commission, to be effective as of November 15, 1949. Mr. Ferguson's letter of resignation was released with the President's reply. Mr. Ferguson served on the Commission for 22 years, the longest term of service since the Commission was created, and served as Chairman five times.  \. No, I have no announcements to make on that.  \. I do not.  \. Certainly -- certainly. That was absolutely the wrong way to go about it. The Senate did the right thing on that. It is the business of the Congress, after I send the budget to the Congress, to analyze that budget and appropriate or not. That is their function, and they can't transfer that function to me. What would be the use of having a Congress, if I have a budget without having appropriations properly analyzed by the legislative branch of the Government, which is what the Constitution calls for?  6 S.J. Res. 108, "To reduce expenditures in Government for the fiscal year 1950 consistent with the public interest," introduced by Senator John Clellan of Arkansas and 29 other Senators on June 13, 1949.  The resolution directed the President to reduce expenditures to be made during the 1950 fiscal year by no less than 5 percent. No single agency was to be cut by more than 20 percent. An attempt by Senator McClellan to include this legislation as a provision of H.R. 4146, the military appropriations legislation, failed on August 29. Although 63 Senators had signed a petition to bring this legislation to the Senate floor for a vote, it failed to carry because of a parliamentary ruling requiring approval by two-thirds of the Senate. The measure remained on the calendar, but as separate legislation. \. The budget that I sent to the Congress was the budget that I thought was absolutely necessary. I stand behind that budget full tilt now. The reason for the ability to make a cut in the defense department was the carrying out of what I had asked the Congress to carry out 3 years ago in the reorganization of the defense department.  \. I didn't say very much of anything. They discussed the situation among themselves and found that they were not as far apart as they thought they were. That is usually the case when you can get people together and get them to sit down and talk. When you are reasonable you can always come to a conclusion that will work.  7 S. 2522, "To stabilize prices of agricultural commodities," introduced in the Senate on August 31, 1949, by Senator Clinton P. Anderson of New Mexico.  \. I hadn't heard anything about it, so I can't comment on it.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and ninetysixth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, September 1, 1949. 
