 Please be seated.  I haven't any special announcements to make, but I will try to answer questions as best I can.  
 I had a very pleasant conversation with the Governor, and he came to make a report to me on his trip. We discussed everything that had to do with his trip. A most interesting meeting, and a very satisfactory one. 1  1 Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York conferred with the President at 12 noon on September 13, at which time they discussed the Governor's recent trip to the Far East. 
 We of course have always endeavored to have a defense in the East, just as we have created a defense in the West. What was your question?  
 I haven't seen the bill yet. It hasn't reached my desk. I will let you know about it when it comes to me for operation.  
 Discussed the welfare of the Philippine Islands and the Philippine Republic. Had a very pleasant visit with the President. He brought me a beautiful ivory cane with a silver handle on it.  2 President Elpidio Quirino. See Items 207, 208.  
 I can't answer your question. 
 I can't answer the question.  
 Yes, I fired him. You saw the message I sent to him, I suppose?
 He was relieved of duty because he was incompetent. 
 Yes. 
 None whatever. I think he's a Democrat. 
 Well, yes, but that had nothing whatever to do with it. He was just incompetent. We relieved him.  
 That is one of them.  3  The new weapon was the B-61 Matador. See Item 215.  
 I have been trying my best to get them to act. I don't know what they are going to do. We are putting all the pressure possible to get some action. I want action. 
 No, but I have had a conversation with the chairmen of the sponsors of the bill, and we will continue those conversations. 4  4 see Items 196, 269.  
 The Japanese treaty has been signed, and as soon as it is ready-- 
 --to send up to the Congress, I shall send it to the Senate asking them for prompt action. It is up to the Senate to follow the procedure they set forth. 
 Certainly do. That is the reason we signed the treaty? 5  5 See Item 216. 
 When I send the treaty to the Senate, I shall ask for prompt action, and the Senate will take its own deliberate time, as it always does. Prompt action with the Senate is within a year, sometimes.   
 You needn't anticipate it at all. That is the lead I will give you. As long as I am President of the United States, he is going to be Secretary of State. That may be a good while. 
 No, that is not the answer.   
 The Cabinet is as bipartisan as it is likely to be.   What did you start to say, Smitty?  6   
 No. I think I wouldn't--no, I won't--I don't make any announcements here today. 
 You know, Tony  7  gets up here with that innocent face of his and asks me a shotgun question like that. You will have to do your own speculating, Tony.  Mr. Vaccaro. Thank you, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. I can't speculate.  7 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 Well, you can say this for sure, that Dean Acheson is going to be Secretary of State until January 20, 1953, and until his successor is appointed and confirmed. You can be sure of that.[Pause] What are you laughing at, Tony? 
 I don't want to tangle you up. 
 None whatever. 
 That is right--that's right. Pause] Well, what's the matter with you?
 No, that's just the rule. 
 Yes. Of course you never leave the Office of Secretary of State vacant for any length of time unless they have to.   I want to call your attention to a fact that may interest some of you. You may want to engage my services. I understand that "The Budget in Brief" is the best seller of the Government Printing Office now. 
 You know, a stuck hog always squeals.  But I hope you will read "The Budget in Brief." You will have your answer.  8  See Item 221. 
 You have to be raised on a farm to understand that! Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right.
