 I have no particular statement to make to you today. I thought you might want to ask questions.    None that I know of.    I never speak in a Pickwickian sense.   Well, I don't think he would dare do that.   I will not.   I don't expect that he will.   I don't think I will be embarrassed by it.   Yes, I did.   Yes, I do. Mr. Pauley is a good man. He made the best deal, I think, that has ever been made on a reparations program as an American representative on the Reparations Commission, both in Germany and in Japan; and the policy that he set is now being followed in Italy.   No, I can't. It is not entirely complete as yet.   Because the Secretary of the Navy asked that Mr. Pauley be appointed to that position, and it was anticipated that President Roosevelt would appoint him to that position.    That's right.   No, I would not. It is an entirely different situation.   The only conversations I ever had with Mr. Ickes on Mr. Pauley, he complimented Mr. Pauley very highly as a good public servant.   No, One time--not so long ago-July of last year, when Mr. Ickes was desiring to quit, if you remember, and I persuaded him to stay.   Mr. Pauley had been one of his advisers in the Petroleum Administration for War, and he thought highly of him.   I never saw Mr. Walsh's telegram. It was never shown to me in the Cabinet room, or on Friday after the Cabinet meeting. Mr. Ickes came and said that he had been summoned to testify on Mr. Pauley, and I said, "Well, tell the truth, and be kind to Pauley."   No, I wasn't. I don't keep written memoranda for future use, and I didn't know that any of my Cabinet officers did, either.   I knew nothing about them, of course.   He said he had been summoned to appear before the committee, on Mr. Pauley, and I stated to him, "Well, tell the truth, but be kind to Pauley."   I said, "be kind."   Back in November--a long time before Mr. Bard quit. I think it was back in November--maybe in October.   Yes--of last year.  Yes.   That is what the Secretary of the Navy informed me. I had not talked to Mr. Roosevelt about it before he died.   Are you going to try to insist that I call somebody a liar at a press conference?   My suggestion to you would be to wait until all the evidence is in, and then draw your own conclusions.   I don't see any reason for that. This is a political argument.    The first time I ever heard of that was what I saw--as Will Rogers used to say--what I saw that Mr. Reynolds had discussed in the paper. He hadn't discussed that matter with me, and Mr. Hannegan says he hasn't discussed the matter with him. I never heard of the conversation before.   Don't you think that you are being a little previous on that? When 1948 comes along, I will have to make a decision, which I will make. I am not thinking of 1948 now. I am trying to get through 1946.     Just as soon as I can find the right man, I will let you know about it. I am not in any hurry about it.    I don't attempt to arrive at it. That is not my job. That is what I have the experts for, and I don't bother my head with it. I have too many other things to think about.    The Argentine "blue book" was given to me, and I read it from cover to cover, and it was discussed by me with the Secretary of State and the Undersecretary of State; and I approved its release.   I did not. Never discussed it with Mr. Churchill. I did not discuss anything with Mr. Churchill but the visit to Missouri.    No, I have nothing.   Well, I have been "expecting" since two weeks ago.     Just as soon as it is prepared. It will be a very simple document, just simply reestablishing the Office of Economic Stabilization as it was before.   That's right.    A great many Senators have recommended Senator O'Mahoney.   No--   I am not considering the situation geographically. I am trying to find the right man.    Mr. Bowles is in the office of Mr. Snyder.   Yes.    I want a man who is administratively capable of running the Interior Department, and I am--and the only thing I am going to inquire into are his qualifications to operate that department.    Yes. Mr. Bowles, Mr. Snyder, and everybody in those two offices told me in the conference we had yesterday that they wanted to cooperate wholeheartedly with me to carry out the objectives in the Executive order which was issued yesterday. Everybody is in agreement, and everybody is happy with the order as it is drawn; and it has been stated by both of the former men who were the heads of OWMR that they think it is an excellent order--that is, Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Vinson. Everybody is in agreement on the order, and everybody has told me personally that he expected to cooperate fully to carry it out.   I didn't talk to Mr. Green, or Mr. Murray either one, myself personally. I think they will go along.   It is in their interest to do it.   About what?  No. I haven't discussed it with steel.   Mr. Snyder is the head of the OWMR. He and Mr. Bowles have agreed to cooperate fully. Mr. Snyder is the head of the OWMR.   No, I do not. If Mr. Bowles were going to resign he would have resigned at the meeting.   I would settle it.   Yes.    Judge Collet has been a most excellent public servant. I don't want to lose his services. I will use him at a later date.   That is the Stabilization Director's duty, as specifically set out in the order. If you will read paragraph 4, it carefully sets out what the Stabilization Director should do.    No. I don't know what's standing in the way of it. Negotiations are going on between the parties. That's the way I want these matters settled. I want the parties to negotiate and settle their differences, if they possibly can.   The price is $5 a ton on the average.   That will be fully explained when the steel strike is settled.   No, it does not. It is an average of the OPA--the way the OPA sets those things up. It has been just exactly what two and a half and four dollars would have been.  Mr. Snyder:  Carbon and alloy steel. 1     1 On February 18, Judge John C. Collet, Stabilization Administrator, announced in a statement released by the White House that in line with the President's policy he was directing an increase in maximum prices for carbon and alloy steel products in such amounts as in the judgment of the Price Administrator would be equivalent to an increase of $5 per ton for all carbon and alloy steel mill products.   Yes.   I do not. If you will all cooperate with me, there will be no breakthrough.   Yes.   Yes, I do. That is the objective that we have in view. And everybody is in line to help do that very thing. And we must do that, unless we want wild inflation. That is the reason we are trying to get controls on real estate, and everything.    What do you think?     That's correct. That is just what I said.    No, it hasn't. The negotiations are between Mr. Murray and the steel companies, and I didn't go into details on the matter. That was not my business.   No, I haven't. I have expressed it on one--several occasions. We will just wait now, and see what happens. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.   For Heaven's sake don't try to break up my play. 
