  The first announcement I have to make is the appointment of Richmond B. Keech as Associate Justice of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. He will succeed Justice Jesse C. Adkins, who is retiring October 15th. Mr. Keech is now Administrative Assistant to the President, and was Corporation Counsel for the District of Columbia.   I am appointing General George C. Marshall, Senator Burnet Maybank of South Carolina, General Alexander A. Vandegrift, and Congressman Joseph Clark Baldwin of New York, to the Battle Monuments Commission.   How's that?   No. Expenses are paid when they are on their regular duties for that purpose. Congress authorized an additional four members to it.   In connection with the inauguration on November 3d of the President of the Republic of Chile, I have directed the Secretary of the Navy to send a small squadron of naval vessels to be present at a Chilean port at that time; and I have designated my Chief of Staff, Fleet Admiral Leahy, to be my Personal Representative at the inauguration ceremonies.  That's all the announcements I have to make.   Nothing on meat.    He is a Fleet Admiral, a five-star admiral.   He is my Special Representative. He is not a special Ambassador.    There is not.   I have no comment to make on that.    None.    Mr. Wirtz will make a statement on that later in the day. He is the Chairman of the Board.   No, I haven't.   I haven't yet. I have rejected them once. I may do it again. 1  1 In a statement released later in the day, as reported in the New York Times of October 11, Mr. Wirtz noted with regret the resignations of the two industry members of the Wage Stabilization Board.    Yes, there will be. Yes, there will be.   Same group.  Meet today.   I have no comment to make on what they are considering. They will make a report to me when they are ready.   I will announce it when I get it.   They will meet in the White House.   I might. I haven't made up my mind yet. If it is necessary, I will.    I do not.   I didn't say that. I said I didn't plan to go now.    They have not.   There are none. Categorically none.    Sure.   I have no comment to make on that.    Well now, I think that's a matter that he and Dewey can settle, don't you?     Mr. Allen went on business for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, with which I am not familiar. It has nothing to do with any policy that affects Germany except where the Reconstruction Finance Corporation is interested.    There has been no decision made as yet.   No.    No, I do not. I have made my position perfectly clear on that, but I have no comment to make at the present time on this question.    Mrs. Truman is going to attend.   I won't. I have never attended those affairs.    I have no comment to make on that, for I haven't discussed the matter with them as yet.    It is under consideration.   I will make the announcement right here when it is ready.    Well, they are going to be quite a problem, they are getting rather scarce. Black ties or tails, whichever they have, because they are scarce. The President will wear tails.     Not that I know of. That's the first I have heard of it.    No, I did not.    Oh, I'll deliberate about it. I have had their resignations once before. There was no hurry about accepting them and they stayed on.    That was a direct misquotation of Mr. Snyder. There is no difference between Mr. Snyder and me.    Yes, I have.   No, it will not be made public.    I have made the statement that the budget would be in balance by the end of the year.   I didn't say that, either. I am doing my best to catch up with the 2 billion, one, and I think we are going to do it. I would like to make that perfectly plain.   Well, I can't tell you that right now. I have issued orders on it, and it will be announced at a later date.   Mr. Snyder.   Yes.   I am going to do everything I possibly can to balance the budget. Morally certain it will be in balance.    I don't know whether I have signed it yet or not. It has been in contemplation. It will be signed within a few days. I can't remember exactly whether it has been signed or not. Mr. Clifford: No, it has not.   They tell me that it hasn't been signed. It has been up for consideration.    No.   No. I will make that announcement when I have made the decision.   You're welcome.
