 Please be seated.   I am announcing some additional members for the Committee on Government Contract Compliance 1  : Russell Forbes, Deputy Administrator, General Services Administration; Michael J. Galvin, Under Secretary of Labor; Everett L. Hollis, General Counsel, Atomic Energy Commission; and John D. Small, Chairman, Munitions Board.  1  See Item 7 .   I think you will find for distribution, when you go out, this little booklet here, "The Budget in Brief," which gives you a bird's-eye view of the budget, in language that is simple and can be understood. It is an excellent booklet, and as I said last year, if you will study it carefully you can't be confused by the budget. That's all I have to say at this time.  \. Well, I'll tell you, I think enough questions have been asked on that, and there are so many more important things, I think we ought to drop that for the time being. When I get ready to make an announcement I will make it formally, and you will all know about it. \. Well, you ought to know--it's all favorable.  \. Well, that has been done all over the country by various and sundry organizations. I think it's time to drop the subject, as I said awhile ago. Because when I get ready to make a formal announcement, I will let you all know in plenty of time so that you can get to the telephone. \. I saw it in the paper this morning. It will be taken off. 2\. Yes.  2  See Item 28.  \. No.  3  Maj. Gen. Frank E. Lowe, who spent 10 months in Korea as the President's personal representative, was quoted in the New York Times of January 26, 1952, as having said that some of his reports had not been delivered to the President. He stated that he was inclined to believe that the cablegrams had been stopped at the Pentagon. A spokesman for the Department of Defense said that there would be no comment on General Lowe's criticism of top military officials because "his remarks were a matter of opinion." \. I have no comment on what General Lowe said, and will not talk about it further, May. 4   4  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. She wanted to know something about General Lowe and the cables, and I say I received every message that was ever sent from him, but there is no further comment on General Lowe.  \. That amended order was written at the suggestion of the Loyalty Review Board, and at the suggestion of the Civil Service Commission, and the letters on that, I think were released at the time--\. --that covers the situation.  5 Executive Order 9835 of March 21, 1947, entitled "Prescribing Procedures for the Administration of an Employees Loyalty Program in the Executive Branch of the Government" , and Executive Order 10241 of April 28, 1951, amending the above order . \. Oh, well, go ahead. This is all background--go ahead. \. I would suggest that you read the two letters I referred to, and also read the order, very carefully.  \. I might be in the frame of mind to give Ellis Arnall a job if he wanted it, but he did not come to see me about a job, and I don't think he wants one. I would be glad to have him in the administration if he wanted to come.  6  See Item 31 .  \. Never heard of it. I don't want to stop anybody.  \. No comment. \. Not at all. \. All these primaries are just eyewash when the convention meets, as you will find out.  \. Ask it again. \. Not at all. You see, all these primaries are eyewash. When it comes to the national convention meeting, it doesn't mean a thing. \. Why there isn't any sense in my entering a primary. If I want to be nominated, I don't have to go into any primary.  \. All right, Ed. 7   7 Edward A. Harris of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. The two-term limitation I think is all right, but you must understand that by a technicality I have only had one term. \. Well, you can translate it any way you want to. You and the Post-Dispatch will do a good job on it, I am sure.  \. Whatever the formal manner is to do it.  \. Shoot. \. That's a good paper. \. No, it's a nice country daily--very good paper, and a friend of mine. \. Well, my answer to that would be that I will be glad to help retire any Republican Senator that is running.  \. That's all right. He has got another question from my friend on the Mexico Ledger, and I want him to ask it.  \. I made that suggestion a long time ago, and Senator Brewster introduced a bill to that effect in the Both Congress. It didn't get anywhere in the 80th Congress.  \. I have not received his resignation as yet--his retirement request-I don't know which it is. And I can't consider a successor until I know for sure whether he is going to quit or not.  8 Judge J. Waties Waring of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of South Carolina. His retirement became effective on February 15, 1952. \. I will take that matter up when it comes time for me to make it. \. No, I haven't, because I haven't received it as yet. I think he is a very great judge, however. I'll say that for your benefit.  \. I don't know what the bill provided. If you are familiar with what is in it, whatever you say will be right. \. I can't answer. I don't know.  \. NO, not at the present time. When we are ready to make the announcement, I will let you know.  \. As I told you awhile ago, I am very fond of Ellis, and he is entitled to his own opinion--it is only one man's.  \. I have no answer to that.  \. No comment.  9 In a radio-television address over the Columbia Broadcasting System on January 27, former President Hoover urged that the United States withdraw all of its ground forces from Europe except those needed to protect U.S. air bases outside the North Atlantic Treaty Organization nations. The full text of Mr. Hoover's address is published in the Congressional Record .  \. No, I haven't.  That will be the best answer to White's query, you see. \. Well, we will have to wait and find out whether that is necessary or not.  \. Yes. \. Talked about politics in West Virginia. They all talk politics when they come to see me these days.   \. It'S in the same line as all the attacks that the pathological Mr. McCarthy has made on all of the Government employees that he doesn't like.  10 Special Assistant in the White House Office.  11 Edgar Hoover, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. \. Does he ever tell the truth? If he does, I haven't found it out. \. I doubt very much whether he received any information. He doesn't need information to become a character assassin. That's his business. And I'm not talking with immunity.  12  David D. Lloyd, Administrative Assistant to the President.  \. I don't know anything about it. Explain it to me; maybe I can give you a comment.  13 Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York, speaking before the National Industrial Conference Board on January 24 in New York City, urged the establishment of a Pacific pact similar to the North Atlantic Treaty and the Rio Pact. The full text of the Governor's address is published in the Congressional Record . \. I can't comment on that because I will have to read what he had to say in detail. We have defense treaties pending between us and the Philippine Islands, between us and Australia, and New Zealand, and I don't know how much further Mr. Dewey wants to go. But I will look at the thing, and maybe I can comment on it the next time we have a meeting.  \. No. \. NO. You will have to paraphrase it if you can. There are two or three definitions of that in the dictionary.   \. Nothing. We are just trying to get the right people. \. No. We are just about ready with it, and as soon as it is completed, it will be announced. 14  And there is nothing holding it up except to be sure that we have the right people understand what flood control means, especially in these two great valleys.  14  See Item 32.  \. That's their privilege. They can investigate anybody. I would advise them to investigate themselves if they feel like it.   \. Just as soon as I find the man I want, I will send it down. \. Say that again, I think you misconstrued what I want. \. I don't think I have ever appointed anybody to any commission that I did not think represented the public at large.  \. I have one in mind, and as soon as he is able to take the position I will announce him to you.  \. No, it is not.  15  Former Secretary of War.  \. Oh, I think the more television stations we have the more likely we are to get the truth over to the public. And that is no reflection on anybody. \. I haven't talked to the Democratic National Committee about it at all. \. Yes. Television is going to play a great part in any campaign that Comes Up. \. NO I don't. I think it is going to go along the lines of the campaign of 1948, which was mostly television. I got out where everybody could see me--and I won.   \. No, that isn't true. That isn't true. When I get ready to make the announcement about him, why you will know it in plenty of time.  \. At the present time I can't make an announcement on that.  \. Yes.  16 Michael V. DiSalle, Director of Price Stabilization. \. No, I can't do it until the time is right, then I will tell you. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninety-second news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, January 31, 1952. 
