 Please be seated.   I have a short statement here, which I will read to you. And Tony, 1  for your benefit I will read it very slowly, because it isn't mimeographed.  1  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. Tony Vaccaro: Oh, thank you, sir.   THE PRESIDENT. You know, at the Chicago convention, I said the Republicans have nearly all the newspapers and magazines on their side.  Governor Stevenson, the other day, in Oregon, had something to say on this situation. I agree with what he said, and would like to add just what I mean by Republican control of the press.  In 1948, only 10.3 percent of the 1769 daily papers \. Sure, Tony. Only 10.3 percent of the 1769 daily papers in this country supported the Democratic candidate, and almost all the big circulation magazines were pro-Republican. I don't think the situation has changed much since then.  In Michigan in 1948, for instance, not one of the 53 daily papers supported the Democratic ticket. \. 1948. There wasn't a single newspaper in Michigan that supported the Democrats. \. 53. 53 daily papers.  In New York, only 4 percent of the papers were for the Democrats. In Pennsylvania, 1.5 percent. In Illinois, 3.4 percent. In Ohio, 4 percent. In California, 4.8 percent. Now I will repeat those figures. \. All right. You got the one about Michigan, where not one of the 53 daily papers supported the Democratic ticket? In New York only 4 percent were for the Democrats. In Pennsylvania only 1.5 percent. In Illinois only 3.4 percent. In Ohio only 4 percent. Going too fast? \. Going too fast--all right. How far have you got?\. Have you? All right. In California 4.8 percent--that's the last one. The one-party press situation is, of course, particularly tough for Democratic congressional candidates, who get even less opportunity to state their case in their local Republican papers than does the Democratic presidential candidate.  Now, I do not expect that listing these figures will result in any switches from the Republican to the Democratic Party. Newspapers-especially daily newspapers-have become big business, and big business traditionally has always been Republican.  I suggest that Americans bear this in mind, and add a dash of salt to every Republican helping of news, especially in those many papers and magazines which do not give a fair balance of news between the two major parties.  If democracy is to work properly, the people must be able to read and hear not only the Republican story but the Democratic as well. Our newspapers, magazines, radio, and TV have a great responsibility to be fair in this and in all other campaigns.  I want to add a comment to that, that I don't think it makes much difference what they do. I have had some experience with the situation for over 30 years, and as far as I can remember I never had the support of the metropolitan press in Missouri when I was running for the Senate, and I never needed it.  In 1948 I read you the figures, and I think it is a rather pitiful situation, the small amount of political influence that the great free press of the United States has.  It is a good thing for the country, and I am not worried about the situation, but I am calling these things--nailing this thing down, for the simple reason that I am very anxious to see in the news columns a fair approach to the thing.  I will say this, that fairness has been increasing since Governor Stevenson's speech. I am ready for questions. \. That's right. \. Oh, yes. I have already said that. I don't give a "hoot" what they say on the editorial pages if they will just give me a fair deal in the news. \. No, it was not. It was principally aimed at garbling the news, and there are papers in this country that do garble the news. There are a lot of first-class newspapers that do not, but there are a great many that do. I could specifically name them if it were necessary, but I won't. And you know who they are as well as I do.  \. No comment.  \. No comment. When I get out on the road I'll tell you a lot of stories that will be of interest to you.  2  Governor Allan Shivers of Texas.  \. Well, it isn't quite ready for an announcement yet, but just as quickly as we get the thing properly lined up, I will see that you get mimeographed copies of the schedule, and you will have to take two or three clean shirts, because it is going to be pretty well stretched out. There won't be time to stop and get any laundry. \. So have I. \. The program is being outlined by the National Democratic Committee, and the President will go where he is requested to go by the committee. \. No, no, it is not right, because in 1948 I started out on several nonpolitical trips in June, and then I started out on a real political tour on Labor Day, and I didn't stop. \. I don't know yet, because the thing has not been completely outlined; and as soon as it is, why then you can compare them if you like, and I have got the figures on the other trips. \. Well, I haven't ever put any early-rising time on any of these things. I always get up when it is necessary. I think the earliest time we ever got up was about 6:30, and that wasn't bad. \. It carried Colorado, if I remember correctly.   \. I do not.  3 Theron Lamar Caudle, former Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Tax Division.  \. No, I haven't been informed on that. I suppose they will wait for the new administration, because they know I won't be here next year. \. I know nothing about it. \. --I know nothing about it.  \. No comment.  4 Senator William E. Jenner of Indiana.  \. Newspapers as a whole, 1700-odd of them. Those percentages were based on number of newspapers. When you get to circulation the percentage runs a great deal higher.  \. I don't think that's true. I think the thing that the country and the world is interested in is peace. That is what we have been aiming for, for 7 long years, and I am still hopeful that we will get it. We won't necessarily get it by the sort of change that they are talking about.  \. I am glad Ike is perfectly willing to take some of the principal planks in the Democratic platform and try to stand on them. It's a little late, though, for the Republicans to get on that platform.  \. Ask that question again, I didn't hear it? \. I don't know anything about it, so I can't approve or disapprove. It has never been put up to me.  \. That's right. \. An isolationist Congress is what he is proposing. That won't bring peace. \. I didn't say that at all. I said it would not bring peace. Don't misinterpret what I tell you. Don't try to put words in my mouth, I don't like that. \. I mean if we elect a Republican Congress it will be isolationist. I am only going by their votes in Congress as a whole, in the minority that they are in now. \. Yes--isolationist Congress. \. I don't think so. I haven't anything else on my mind. Reporter: Thank you, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. It's all right. Note: President Truman's three hundred and fifteenth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, September 11, 1951. 
