  Some of the boys up here in the front row are making fun of my certificate as an honorary airline transport pilot, with all ratings authorized. I was trying this morning to get volunteers for my first flight, and I couldn't get any.    I am--if you want to ask questions, go ahead.    Categorically, no. As long as I am President of the United States, the value of gold is fixed.    I wonder--I wonder who is trying to do that? I hadn't heard of it.   Oh, that's a very reliable sheet.  But I have no authority for the publication.   No.    Not that I know of.   No.    I commented on that election, I think, very fully on the night of the Women's Democratic Club dinner. It was published in all the papers.   Well now--   --do you use the word "mandate" in the manner in which it is used by the United Nations, or do you mean a local colloquialism?   The Democratic Platform sets out what the campaign was fixed on. When the Democrats win an election they have authority--call it a mandate, if you want to--from the people to carry out that Democratic Platform. That's all I am trying to do. I think this will make it easier to carry out the Democratic Platform.    No, no comment. No comment. 2   2 See Item 255.    No, I have not. I was for that Jefferson Memorial project before it started, and I have been for it all along, and I am going to continue to be for it. I hope it will be finished sometime in the not too far distant future.   Pardon me--he didn't finish.   No. I know nothing about that.    Purchase of what?   Well, that's a matter for ECA. That's a matter for ECA to decide. That has been put up to ECA, not up to me.    I think you had rather put that question up to John Foster Dulles. He runs his own business. I am not running it for him. I didn't put him in the race for Senator.   I have not given that any consideration.   Why certainly not. Of course there isn't any reason, except in Bertie McCormick's mind, or Hearst's. They are isolationists, if you remember.    It has been under consideration.   Yes.    I was very much impressed with it. I enjoyed the visit down there very much. And it's well worth seeing. I am advertising the art gallery now. I hope you will all go down and see the Hapsburg collection. It is well worth the visit.    No comment. His picture is there, on the front page of the Post. Take a look at it!     There have not been, so far as I know.    I Can't answer that question. You will have to ask the heads of the steel companies and ask the negotiators for the unions. Maybe you can get an answer. I can't give you one.    No--no. I said it had been under consideration. The matter will be attended to by the Secretary of State in due course.    None.   I don't know. I suppose they are.    The Cardinal paid a courtesy call on me. We discussed various matters in which we are both interested. Had a very pleasant visit with the Cardinal.    Stop what?   That matter is under consideration by the foreign ministers in Europe, and I have no comment on it.    Yes, they always have invited me.   I don't think so.    I can't answer that question.   I hope so. I hope so. I have always been hopeful in that direction.   Regular diplomatic channels. Just the same as they have always been.    We will cross that bridge when we get to it.   You're welcome.
