 Gentlemen, I have a statement I want to read to you, and you will find it mimeographed outside as you go out.    "It now appears that the 80th Congress is determined to take no effective action on the proposals which I have submitted to curb high prices and to protect the average American citizen against the certain prospect of increased living costs.  "I have been informed that the Republican leadership has decided that the Congress will not be allowed to consider really effective measures to stop high prices. Republican leaders reached this decision without obtaining the full information that the administration was prepared to offer in connection with my recommendations. In fact, the Chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency refused a request for three Cabinet members to be given an opportunity to testify before that Committee.  "The Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, and Interior were and are now prepared to testify. The Secretary of Agriculture was prepared to offer a program directed to the problem of excessive food prices. The Secretary of Commerce was prepared to discuss with the committee the question of shortages of industrial materials and what could be done to correct the situation. The Secretary of the Interior was prepared to submit a program dealing with the proper distribution and prices of coal, heating oil, and other fuels. The Committee of the House refused to receive the views of these members of my Cabinet. In the absence of such basic information, I do not see how the Committee can make an intelligent decision on issues which so gravely affect the welfare of the American people and their standard of living.  "And, following the same pattern, the Ways and Means Committee of the House refused to give any consideration to the recommendation for an excess profits tax, which is necessary to offset the inflationary effects of the tax bill passed last spring. The Chairman of this Committee has not even called a meeting of the Committee since the Congress reconvened.  "It would appear that the Republican leaders are unwilling to extend to the Congress an opportunity to vote on the issues of direct price control, the authority to impose allocations and priorities, and the other elements of a balanced program which I submitted to the Congress, including provisions to strengthen and reinforce rent control.  "It now appears that so far the Congress has failed to discharge the tasks for which I called it into special session. It is my hope, therefore, that the Republican leadership will reconsider their present plans for quick adjournment and will take action upon the recommendations I have submitted.  "There is still time for the Congress to fulfill its responsibilities to the American people. Our people will not be satisfied with the feeble compromises that apparently are being concocted."  And when you go out, you will find that mimeographed. 
 I have called the Democratic leaders of the Congress. I haven't called the Republicans. 
 Well, I would be glad to see them any time. I don't think there's anything I can say to them that will change their viewpoint. 
 I doubt it very much.  
 Well, a little later on. Probably in September sometime. I will let you know when we get ready in time. 
 Several cities under consideration. 
 Detroit happens to be one of them. 
 I can't give you any details of the campaign yet. When they are ready to be announced, I will let you know in plenty of time, so you can pack your bag. 
 The campaign program is not ready. When it is ready, I will give it to you. 
 They will speak for themselves. When the time comes, I will give you copies in advance.  
 I have no comment on that.  
 Yes, I do, and I will read you another statement on that, since you brought it up.   1  In July and August 1948 Elizabeth Bentley, Louis Budenz, and Whittaker Chambers testified before the House Committee on Un-American activities, and Miss Bentley and Mr. Budenz testified before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments. During these hearings they identified a number of former Government officials as members of the Communist Party. Their testimony is recorded in "Hearings Before the Committee on Un-American Activities Regarding Communist Espionage in the United States Government," dated July-December 1948  and in "Export Policy and Loyalty Hearings Before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments," dated July-August 1948 .   "In response to written requests from congressional groups for information relating to the employment of individuals, the department or agency may forward to the committee all unclassified routine papers, such as Civil Service Form 57, records of promotion, efficiency ratings, letters of recommendation, etc.  "No information of any sort relating to the employee's loyalty, and no investigative data of any type, whether relating to loyalty or other aspects of the individual's record, shall be included in the material submitted to a congressional committee. If there is doubt as to whether a certain document or group of documents should be supplied, the matter should be referred to the White House.  "No information has been revealed by these committees' investigations that has not long since been presented to a Federal grand jury.  "No information has been disclosed in the past few days by the congressional committees that has not long been known to the FBI.  "The Federal grand jury found this information insufficient to justify indictment of the Federal employees involved.  "All but two of the employees involved have left the Federal Government, and these two have been placed on leave without pay before the congressional hearings started.  "The public hearings now under way are serving no useful purpose. On the contrary, they are doing irreparable harm to certain people, seriously impairing the morale of Federal employees, and undermining public confidence in the Government."  And they are simply a "red herring" to keep from doing what they ought to do. 
 What information? 
 What useful purpose is it serving when we are having this matter before a grand jury where action has to take place, no matter what this committee does? They haven't revealed anything that everybody hasn't known all along, or hasn't been presented to the grand jury. That is where it has to be taken, in the first place, if you are going to do anything about it. They are slandering a lot of people that don't deserve it. 
 Using this as a "red herring" to keep from doing what they ought to do. 
 Yes. 
 That is the answer for John Sullivan.  1 On July 30 Elizabeth Bentley testified before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments. She identified William W. Remington, a former official of the Department of Commerce, as a Communist who had given secret data to her when she served as a Soviet courier.  On July 31 Mr. Remington, in testimony before the Subcommittee, denied Miss Bentley's allegations. He revealed that he had been requested to resign from the Naval Reserve.  On August 4 Secretary of the Navy John L. Sullivan supported several admirals who refused to testify on the Remington resignation because they felt that it would be a violation of administration policies.  The testimony of Miss Bentley and Mr. Remington is recorded in "Export Policy and Loyalty Hearings Before the Investigations Subcommittee of the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments," dated July-August 1948 . 
 That is the answer for John Sullivan, right there. 
 They will get all the information that they are entitled to on Remington. They will not get any confidential information on him. 
 I don't know anything about that. You will have to ask the Navy about that. I can't answer the question because I don't know. I didn't even know he had been asked to resign. 
 Well, I haven't the information available. 
 Well, that is up to Congress. I have said it as plainly as I can.  
 I can't answer that question. I don't know.  
 Yes. 
 Its in his mind, I think. 
 To be on the safe side, of course. They got a lot of indictments on these people in New York, on those that got indicted. 1  That was the reason for it. Everything has been presented to the grand jury that they wanted to know about, and if it was possible to indict these people, they would have been indicted.  1  On July 20, 1948, 12 high-ranking members of the Communist Party were indicted in New York City by a special Federal grand jury that had been investigating Communist activities for more than a year. All 12 were accused of conspiring to violate the Smith Act, a defense measure passed in June 1940.  The indictment stated that they had conspired "to organize as the Communist Party of the United States a society, group or assembly of persons who teach and advocate the overthrow and destruction of the Government of the United States by force and violence .... "  
 I haven't seen it yet. I saw in the paper I was going to receive it, though.  
 I do not. I do not.  
 It isn't true.  
 I will announce it whenever I have the man ready.  
 Yes, I do. I sincerely hope that they will be outlawed.  
 No, I do not. General Marshall and I are having a conference today. 
 I am always hopeful for peace. 
 I can give you no details whatever. No comment of any sort on any of these foreign questions at all, except the one about General Clay.  
 He evidently is a thoroughbred Republican. He was nominated for Vice President.  I don't think the Republican platform agrees with his views, however.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
