 Please be seated.   I am sorry that I am 6 minutes late, but my clock over on the mantel that Admiral Nimitz   1  gave me is running slow these days. That is what made me late. I am going to have it adjusted.    1  Fleet Adm. Chester W. Nimitz. 
 Admiral Nimitz. It's a Navy clock--and it strikes bells.   I am very happy that the railroad strike is settled at last.  2   And it could have been settled exactly as it was in 1950, but people sometimes can't understand that it is better to abide by the law than not.    2  On May 21, the White House released a statement by John R. Steelman. The Assistant to the President, in which he announced that the dispute between the Nation's railroads and the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, the Order of Railway Conductors, and the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen had been settled on that day. Mr. Steelman listed the provisions of the settlement and added that representatives of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, who had settled their disputes with the railroads a year before, had cooperated with him in his efforts to help the parties reach an agreement.  For the President's original order providing that the United States Army take control of and operate the railroads, see 1950 volume, this series, Item 221. For the President's letter to the Secretary of the Army directing him to terminate Government control, see Item 141, below.  I am appreciative of John Steelman's hard work in the matter, which finally brought the thing to a proper conclusion, and I hope from now on that the railroad labor and the railroad management will abide by the Railway Labor Act, which has been very successful up to this time.  This situation of seizure was brought about by the request of the unions themselves, so they haven't any kick on seizure, and management was in favor of it also.  The thing is over now, and just as quickly as I can get the papers signed, I will turn the roads back to the owners.  Now I am ready for questions.  
 I can't comment on the steel settlement until the big Court down the street acts.  3    3  On June 2 the Supreme Court ruled the seizure of the steel plants unconstitutional.  
 No. I said what I meant. And I will go a little further with it when the bill comes to me. I don't like to comment on legislation until it is before me.  5    4  See Item 129.   5  For the President's statement upon vetoing the bill concerning title to offshore lands, see Item 146. 
 No. I haven't seen it.  
 NO, I don't think I will, thank you.    6  For the President's statement upon vetoing the bill to revise the Immigration and Nationality Act, see Item 182.  
 I have no comment on General Ridgway's statements. He of course knows more about the situation than anybody.   7  Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway, former United Nations Commander in Korea and former Commander in Chief of the far East Command.  
 Oh well, you hear all sorts of things of that sort. It wasn't at all. 
 No indeed. I have every confidence in Frank McKinney. He is a good chairman. 
 I don't know anything about that, so I can't comment on it.  
 I am, as you know, a little prejudiced against polls, and I wouldn't like to make a comment.    8  General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Governor Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois.  
 Which they should have done without all the "hooey." He should have been confirmed immediately when his name went down there. He has been confirmed twice before the Senate.   9    9  James P. McGranery had previously been the Assistant to the Attorney General and a Federal court judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, both of which positions required Senate confirmation.  He was nominated as Attorney General on April 3 and confirmed by the Senate on May 20. Mr. McGranery was sworn in as Attorney General of the United States on May 27, 1952. 
 Well, go ahead and ask your question--go ahead and ask your question, and I will answer it. 
 No, I would not. That will take care of itself when the Attorney General takes charge--and don't worry about it. 
 Why no, of course not. The Attorney General will do his job. It makes no difference whether he has a month or 90 days or 3 months to work in. He is going to be a good Attorney General. I am making a prophecy. And I have had a lot of good Attorneys General.   Well, well--struck a dry hole, have we?   
 Well, I don't know whether you are or not. I thought maybe you might have some very penetrating questions to ask this morning. I was ready to answer them. But you don't seem to care about them. 
 I am not asking the President any questions!  
 That's a question I can't answer.  
 I don't know how to answer that question, because I don't know. 
 Go ahead. 
 I have said, I think three different times, that I like every man who has come out for the Presidency, and should any one of them be nominated, I will do everything I possibly can to see that he is elected.  And I have started already to see that a Democratic President is elected. 
 Includes everybody that has come out.  
 Well, of course, that has to go before the Senate. That is only a committee report. The Senate has to debate it and act on it, and so does the House; and I wouldn't be in any position to comment on a committee report.   10  The amendments to the Walsh-Healey Act as recommended by the Committee on Banking and Currency are printed in Senate Report "To Amend and Extend the Defense Production Act of 1950" .  On June 30, the President approved the Defense Production Act Amendments of 1952 which included amendments to the Walsh-Healey Act .  
 No, I would not comment on it at all. That is California's business, and not mine.  
 That's correct. 
 I have been trying ever since I have been President to get a law on the books that would make it possible for real negotiation to go on between labor and management. I haven't been able to get it. 
 There would have to be some means to keep the country running in cases like railroads or any industry that affects the whole economy of the country. And seizure seems to be the only ultimate end to things when they can't get together. 
 There must be some provision to meet the situation. Whether seizure is the answer or not, I don't know. That is what we have had to use, because that is the only thing we had. 
 The President has the power, and they can't take it away from him.  
 No. I have not received the papers on it yet. I will comment on it when I know all the details, but I haven't received the papers on it.   11  Acting Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization John R. Steelman, in an effort to comply with Chile's demands on copper prices, ordered the ceiling on United States imports lifted, thereby allowing United States importers to pay a free market price.  
 That is what every candidate for President ought to believe. If he doesn't believe that, he has no business in the race. I proved that in 1948!    12  W. Avereli Harriman, Director for Mutual Security. 
 Well, you never can tell. I think I told you a story about the Republican convention of 1880, when a man was nominated who was not even a candidate. And that same thing happened in 1944 when they nominated a Vice President. They nominated a man who was not even a candidate for it, and he is President now.  
 That's correct. 
 Yes-- 
 Why sure. Ask it again. 
 Go ahead. 
 Nobody can take it away from him. 
 You can put "they" in any place you want to, but nobody can take it away. 
 No, I don't think so. No. As you will find out when the decision comes down. 
 I have 
 --I have no explanation to make, because I am not going to comment on what the Court is going to do. 
 Nobody can take it away from the President, because it is inherent in the Constitution of the United States. I have cited you some precedents, now go and read them. 
 I can't do that. That has been done by the attorneys for the Government.  
 What was the question?
 I don't think he was referring to anybody in particular. It might be Joe Doakes out in Missouri.   14 Elmer H. Davis of the American Broadcasting Co.  
 Go ahead. 
 Well, Joe,16 I can't speculate on what might happen after that. Let's wait and see what happens, and then you needn't be uneasy about the President acting as he sees fit.  15 Martin S. Hayden of the Detroit News.  16 Joseph A. Fox of the Washington Star. 
 I will tell you what you do, Joe. You tell your editors to do their own speculating. 
 That's correct. 
 That is exactly what I expect to do. 
 I will turn the steel companies-turn the steel industry back to the companies, and see what happens. 
 Yes, but I don't think they will do it. 
 What's that? 
 It has to be signed by the President.  
 Oh yes, it has been tried many a time. I think I have had more vetoes than any other President except Grover Cleveland. And his number of vetoes was caused by pension bills. Mine have been caused by substantive legislative acts which I didn't like. 
 If they do that, then let's see what happens. 
 Oh no I'm not, Eddie.17 
 That's correct, but I am not prejudging the Supreme Court. I am going to abide by their action, whatever that action may be.  17 Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post. 
 Well, we will cross that bridge when we come to it. 
 Well, let's not argue about what is before the Court. Let the Court do its own arguing. They have heard the case on both sides, and I guess they will argue among themselves now, and then we will get a decision after awhile--I hope. 
 I haven't read Judge Pine's decision, and I don't intend to read it. That's a matter for the Court.  18The Supreme Court was reviewing the April 29 decision made by Judge David A. Pine in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia that the seizure of the steel plants could not be supported by statute nor by the Constitution. Judge Pine stated that the court ordered Secretary of Commerce Charles Sawyer to end the Government possession.  
 That's correct. That's correct. We oughtn't to have strikes in the fundamental industries if they can be avoided. I think there's a way to avoid them.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
