 I have no announcements to make this morning, but I thought maybe you might have some questions you might want to ask me, and I would let you come in and do it.  
 NO I haven't. That is a matter for the Democratic Committee to decide. 
 No I haven't. That is still another matter for the Committee to decide.  
 NO, not that I know of.  
 Did you read my message to Congress? 
 No new comment, no. The message speaks for itself. 1  Of course I favor it. I have been in favor of it for 14 years, that is, since I came to the Senate.  1  See 1945 volume, this series, Item 155.  
 I have no comment about it.  
 As soon as he gets through with the--winds up the situation in the Navy. That is--I suppose some time soon. Whenever he is ready to--he is going to take the oath. I will let you know whenever the matter takes place. 
 That's right--that's right. I may have some announcements to make to you on those at the next press conference. I can't make any today. 
 Yes.  
 The Food Committee of the Cabinet has had that in line and is working on it now.  
 NO, I have nothing to add to it. I hope it will obtain some results, and I think probably it will. I am wholeheartedly in favor of it. 
 That's the investigation of high prices, not the high-price investigation!  
 I think the second part of your question is probably what would happen. 
 Have to wait and see what the results would be. 
 I can't answer that until the investigation has found the answer. That is what the investigation is for.  
 Well, I was thinking when the press conference was called that it was--accidentally happened to be on the anniversary of the surrender of the Japanese. I think the announcement was made to you, as I remember, about 7 o'clock in the afternoon, and I had anticipated at that time that we would have arrived at a peaceful settlement of affairs in the world. I regret to say that we have not arrived at that situation. I am still hopeful that we will have peace in the world that will be for the benefit of all the peoples of the world, as I stated, I think, in my V-J Day announcement.  
 When I was going to school we were discussing the battle of Gettysburg, and a very bright young man got up and stated the maneuvers that should have been made by General Lee and those that should have been made by General Meade, in order to make a complete victory at that point. And the old professor made the statement that any schoolboy's afterthought is worth more than all the generals' forethought. And that is true in the case you state.  
 I have never had any doubt that it was necessary, and I didn't have any doubt at the time. I hated very much to have to make that decision. Anybody would. But I thought that decision was made in the interest of saving about 250,000 American boys from getting killed, and I still think that was true.  
 Well now, Tony, 1  I can't answer a question like that.  The next time the Democratic Committee meets, they will probably decide on a chairman. I think very highly of Secretary Anderson, of course, but I am not naming him as Chairman of the Committee, Tony. A trick question like that!  
 That's all right, Tony.  Go ahead.  1  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 That's the first I've heard of that. There is no vacancy in the Department of Agriculture yet.  
 I have no comment. 
 I have no comment.  
 I have no comment on that. I made an attempt at that in November 1945. It was not successful.  
 I certainly do. I made that statement, I think, to General Marshall yesterday.  
 Nothing on the horizon at the present time.  
 No, I can't give you any details yet. As soon as I can, why I will furnish you with all the details. 
 I don't know either Portuguese or Spanish, so it won't be necessary, any such comment as that. 
 NO.  
 Yes, I have been giving it a lot of consideration right along. 
 They should be in one place, undoubtedly. 
 Well, we will rebuild the Labor Department, don't worry about that. It can't be torn--permanently torn up any more than any other Department can. 
 Yes I do. Yes I do. I think that is one of the accomplishments of the last Congress.  
 That's the Republican platform. I can give you the chapter and verse, if you want it. 
 None. None whatever. It speaks for itself.  
 I will be in favor of any city that the National Democratic Committee decides upon.  
 I will have that information ready for you, I hope, inside of the next 10 or 15 days, and I will furnish it to you. It isn't ready yet. 
 The Budget Director, in all probability, will make his report to me, and I will announce it to you. 
 On the budget figures, as to estimates. I made the statement sometime--I think at the last press conference or the one before that, that as soon as we could get the figures together, I would tell you exactly what happened so you could understand and so I could understand them. 
 Yes, those are the same instructions that were given the departments last year. Just a repeat.  
 The teacher said to me that any schoolboy's afterthought is worth more than all the greatest generals' forethought. 
 I don't think I should elaborate on that, because we are trying to get the peace, and I don't think any comment I made at this time would be helpful in that direction.  
 No, I have not. The Truman committee passed out when I resigned. It's another committee.  
 NO, no, We can't figure any potential estimates of that until we have finished the surveys which are now being needed for that purpose. The Paris conference will have one side of it, and our own economic setup which they--which I sent up for the purpose will give us the other. Then I will give you the facts and figures as soon as I have them. 
 I don't understand your question. You will have to make it a little clearer. 
 Well, when the Marshall plan figures are ready, of course they will have an effect on the budget, but I don't think there is any midyear estimate that is contemplated to be made now. 
 Well, I think there has always been a Marshall plan in effect for the Western Hemisphere. The foreign policy of the United States in that direction has been set for one hundred years, known as the Monroe Doctrine.  
 We discussed the situation, and I find that--I found that they were in the same frame of mind that I am, that they are a branch of the executive department of the Government. We have no argument on the subject, and I didn't have to lay any law down.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and sixteenth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, August 14, 1947. 
