 Please be seated.  I understand that these photographers are going to be here about 3 minutes and then they will leave. They just want to see what this place looks like.   I have got a statement I would like to read to you before we start on the question period.  "Mr. Schuman's 1  proposal"--this is mimeographed and will be ready for distribution when you go out--"for the pooling of the French and German steel and coal industries is an act of constructive statesmanship. We welcome it. This demonstration of French leadership in the solution of the problems of Europe is in the great French tradition. The wholehearted reception of this proposal in Germany is likewise encouraging.  1  Robert Schuman, French Minister of Foreign Affairs.  "This proposal provides the basis for establishing an entirely new relationship between France and Germany, and opens a new outlook for Europe. There will be many difficult problems to solve in developing this far-reaching plan. I am confident, however, that the kind of imaginative thinking that went into the proposal can work out the details in ways that will benefit not only the countries directly concerned, including those who work in these industries and those who use their products, but also the whole free world.  "We are gratified at the emphasis the proposal places upon equal access to coal and steel products to all Western European countries, and upon the need for reductions in cost, through higher productivity, so that consumers can benefit through lower prices and workers through higher wages. We are also gratified to note, while the proposal protects the coal and steel industries against the shocks of readjustment during the transitional period, it does leave the industry open to receive, once the transition is completed, the full benefits of the competitive process.  That will be ready for your use as soon as we get through here.  
 Well, it's a legislative--  2 See Items 53-76, and 112-115. 
 All right, we'll yell a little louder.  It's a legislative prerogative to vote against every tax bill and to vote for every appropriation. It is also a legislative prerogative to continually talk about efficiency and economy, but to be very careful that efficiency and economy does not in any way get rid of any people in whom they are personally interested, or that no appropriation is cut off that in any way affects the local situation. I think that is all that is the matter with it.  I think you will remember that these reorganization authorizations have been in existence I think nearly ever since I came to the Senate. And President Roosevelt had a bill that was almost unworkable. I inherited one that had 12 exceptions in it. And when we appointed the bipartisan commission to go into the thing in detail, they issued a five-volume report like that--[indicating]. I am taking that report for what it means, and I am sending down reorganization plans, and shall continue to send them down, as long as that authorization bill is in effect. It is the privilege of the Congress to act on them in any way they see fit. 
 The only comment I can make is that it just isn't true.  
 Well, I think I have made myself perfectly clear on the FEPC bill, and I don't think that deserves any comment.  
 No, I didn't. 
 No, I cannot. You know them as well as I do. All you have got to do is go down there and read the record.  
 No, I have no comment on it. I think it is a good loan.  
 Oh no--you don't put any meaning like that on it. An obstructionist is a man who is against everything that is for the welfare of the people. He doesn't have to be--he is not an obstructionist if he has some pet thing that he doesn't like. I don't expect all the Members of the Congress ever to go along completely on what I am asking them to do. That is what the Congress is for. I want a Congress--an absolutely independent Congress, but people who are against everything certainly do not belong in this age. 
 Yes, it's a matter of degree entirely.  
 Well, nobody feels any stronger than I do about deficit financing of any sort; and if you will read my three veto messages to the 80th Congress on that inane tax bill that they passed, you will find the reason for the deficit. The deficit is not alarming. It will be worked out, and we will eventually balance the budget. What we are trying to do now is to prevent another war.  
 I told the Ambassador that I of course would like to come to Chile. I always have wanted to come to Chile, but I can make no definite plans now that far in advance on a trip of that sort.  
 I can't comment on bills when they are in the course of preparation. The only time I can comment intelligently is after the bill gets to me, after having passed the House and the Senate.  
 I didn't understand the question. 
 The decision was made in conjunction with the Veterans Administration, and it is final.  
 Not a single one. And I have no explanation. I think it explains itself.  
 Secretary Johnson is going to the Far East on the same sort of military errand that he went to Belgium on. The peace treaty will be negotiated in the regular manner by the Secretary of State when the time is propitious for that purpose, and I hope that won't be too far off.  
 Oh, yes. If you will consult these gentlemen right around here that went with me, they can tell you all about it.   
 The matter has been referred to the State Department.  
 Platform crowds--platform crowds on the trip, that is what was referred to.  
 I don't see any difference between a credit and a loan. The bank usually gives me the power to draw a certain amount of money on a check. Whether it is signed as a note or whether they accept my check on an overdraft, I think that is a loan just the same.  
 To vote against tax bills and to vote for appropriations. Don't you know that is the way a Congressman gets reelected? Never vote for a tax bill and never vote against an appropriation.  
 No, I have no comment on that. Senator Brewster ought to know. He is on the Republican committee that handles those things.  3 Senator Owen Brewster of Maine, chairman of the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee, quoted the poem that the President had recited during his address at Chicago  and added that the Committee had sent an observer, Victor A. Johnston, a Committee employee, to follow the President during his trip through the West. Senator Brewster added that the cost of the plane which carried Mr. Johnston had been met by John W. Hanes, vice chairman of the Republican National Finance Committee and Under Secretary of the Treasury during the Roosevelt administration.  
 I say he ought to know. He is on that committee. 
 Read Tony Leviero's letter to Johnston to take back to his people, I think that answers it. 4  4 An article by Anthony H. Leviero, which appeared in the May 14 edition of the New York Times, was written in the form of an imaginary letter from Mr. Johnston and his traveling companion, Philip Willkie, to his Republican superiors in Washington.  The "letter" stated that the President was drawing large and apparently friendly crowds at the various whistlestops he visited and that what sounded like socialism in Washington had a different meaning for the people of the communities who felt they had received benefits in the form of public power and similar enterprises.  
 No, I haven't, and I have no information on it.  
 I imagine that Mr. Duff is very happy.   5 In the Pennsylvania Republican primary election held on May 16, Governor James H. Duff won the Republican nomination for Senator by defeating Representative John C. Kunkel. Representative Kunkel was allied with the political forces of former Senator Joseph R. Grundy.  
 I don't think that is what is ruining New England at all. And when Keyserling gets through, I will tell you what it is. 6    6 On May 15 the White House announced that Dr. Leon H. Keyserling, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, had requested seven New England economists to serve as a committee of experts to study the causes of unemployment in certain New England cities. The study resulted in a report entitled "The New England Economy: A Report to the President Transmitting a Study Initiated by the Council of Economic Advisers and Prepared by Its Committee on the New England Economy" . 
 No, I don't, but I will tell you when I find out.  
 That's right. 
 Well, I was informed by Carter Barron that a subcommittee on the celebration--sesquicentennial committee, I think they call it--of which I am the honorary chairman--had recommended that it be abandoned. Carter expressed the idea that it probably would be abandoned, for the simple reason that the people of the District of Columbia seem not to be very much interested in it; and I am sorry to report that that is a fact.  The Congress has been violently opposed to it--had an awful time getting the appropriation, even to start the celebration for the sesquicentennial. The local people here seem not to be interested in it at all, and it wouldn't surprise me if that thing--that fair is not abandoned. 7    7  See Item 77.  
 I am not dabbling in South Carolina politics right now.  
 Let's wait until November, and I will tell you whether I am happy or not.  
 Yes, it will take until after the first Tuesday in November before I can tell you. I am for the Democrats, you understand.   
 No. No, I don't care to comment, thank you. The Tribune will comment on that all that is necessary.   
 No comment, because I don't think there is anything to either one of them.  8 Eduardo Rodriguez Larreta.  
 No, I didn't listen to Taft. I went to sleep that night. I had been up quite a bit, you know, for the week previously. I didn't listen to the speech, and I haven't read it, I am sorry to say. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
