 Please be seated. I have had some of you gentlemen suggest that I sit down--[laughter]--that maybe I could do a better job sitting down. I feel better on my feet, but I will sit down if that is what you want, if you can get along better.   I wanted to read you a statement about the railroad situation before I start. 1  1 On February 2, 1951, the White House released a statement by Joseph Short, Secretary to the President, in response to inquiries regarding the railroad strike which climaxed a 2-year dispute over wages and working conditions. In 1950, the release noted, railroad unions had rejected the recommendations of an emergency mediation board, and the Government took control of the railroads in August of that year . The leaders of the unions stated that the employees would remain at work during Government operation. Union representatives then met in the White House with representatives of railroad management, and both groups signed an agreement on December 21, 1950. Work stoppages continued, however, and the February statement described the union representatives as "now attempting to escape responsibility for this agreement," on the grounds that their union committees had not ratified it.   "I have been gravely concerned about the interference with essential military and civilian railroad transportation. It is bad enough in other times; it is intolerable in an emergency.  "On the other hand, I have been proud of the vast majority of railroad workers who have stuck to their jobs in spite of their grievances. Consideration is also due the strikers who returned to work when advised of the dangers of the tie-up.  "However, there are still some ill-advised or irresponsible men who are disregarding the emergency needs of their country.  "It is essential that precautions be taken against recurrences of such threats to our national security.  "Accordingly, I have directed the Secretary of the Army to take appropriate action immediately."  And that announcement will come out sometime later today, which will explain the whole situation. 
 "Accordingly, I have directed the Secretary of the Army to take appropriate action immediately." 
 Well, all right. 
 Yes, it is mimeographed, and it will be available for you at the door. "It is essential that precautions be taken against recurrences of such threats to our national security." That is the sentence you asked for? 
 That will be explained in the order which will come out later in the day. 
 The Army is operating the railroads now. But I have directed the Army to issue an order, which will explain fully what is to be done. 
 This statement is all I care-- 
 No, you had better wait. You had better wait until it comes out. 
 It is--the Secretary of the Army is issuing the order at my direction. I am not shirking my responsibility. 
 Later in the day. I can't tell you the exact hour. I hope by noon. 
 Well, you wait and read the order; it will explain itself. 2  2 Department of the Army General Order 2, February 8, 1951, ordered the dismissal with loss of seniority rights for all employees of the Army operated railroads who failed to continue work, unless physically unable to do so. It also provided wage increases for operating employees pending settlement of the dispute, and back pay at the increased rate. In the event no settlement was reached within a reasonable time, the order stated, the Army would recommend enactment by the Congress of appropriate legislation to assure normal rail service and a settlement. 
 Well, they are still talking with each other. As you know, an agreement was signed and they acted like a bunch of Russians. They went back on their signatures.  
 No, I haven't.  3 "Study of Reconstruction Finance Corporation: Favoritism and Influence," interim report of the Committee on Banking and Currency . Senator J. W. Fulbright of Arkansas, chairman of the Subcommittee on Reconstruction Finance Corporation, submitted the report. 4  Donald S, Dawson, Administrative Assistant to the President, formerly personnel director of the RFC. 
 Well, let me see, I brought that along with me, because I thought maybe you might ask that question.  You know, I spent 10 years in the Senate, and I wrote a lot of reports--[more laughter]--but I am happy to say I never wrote one like this.  They make a recommendation to begin with, that the Federal Loan Administrator period was the one in which the RFC functioned best. The Federal Loan Administrators were, to begin with, Jesse Jones and Fred Vinson, and then John Snyder. 5  5 Jesse H. Jones was Secretary of Commerce, as well as Federal Loan Administrator, until his resignation in 1945. At the time of the news conference, Fred M. Vinson was Chief Justice of the United States and John W. Snyder was Secretary of the Treasury.  And as soon as the war was over, everybody wanted to return to the situations as they existed previous to 1940. So the RFC was set up with its board of directors, as any other great financial institution is operated. Then there were some difficulties, in fact I had almost as much difficulty getting people to act as directors of the RFC as I have had with all these emergency agencies which we have been trying to set up.  And then along in the fall of 1949, I sent down a reorganization plan which transferred the RFC to the Department of Commerce, and set up the Secretary of Commerce in the same sort of situation as was the Federal Loan Administrator. And that reorganization plan was rejected at the behest of this committee that has written this asinine report. And now they are recommending just such a setup as I sent them back in 1949.  And what puzzles me--and I am going to ask some of these gentlemen to come up and explain it to me, because I don't think I am fundamentally dumb in most things, especially where it affects administration in Government--one sentence here is most important.   "In presenting this report"--I still don't understand what they mean--"the subcommittee wishes to distinguish between improper influence as such and the improper use of the Corporation's authority in response to influences which in themselves may be perfectly proper. This report deals primarily with the latter. The subcommittee expresses no opinion as to the propriety of the activities of other individuals named in the report, and it makes no charges against those individuals."  Well now, when I made a report to the Congress, I made specific charges if I thought they were necessary.  Then it says : "The subcommittee believes no one will be injured unfairly by its report. However, it will accord the opportunity for a public hearing to those who feel that unfair injury has been given."  Well now, I went through and read the report. I couldn't find where there was any fault with any loans that had been made. They charged some attorneys here in town had been too active in presenting cases before the RFC, and I found an immense number of letters on most of those loans from Senators and Representatives--a big pile of them here--most interesting. 6   But nothing is said in this report about undue influence, outside the President.  6 In a statement made public by the White House on February 23, 1951, Joseph Short, Press Secretary to the President, pointed out that earlier the President had requested and received from the RFC copies of numerous letters written by Senators and Congressmen to the RFC in connection with loans. The material was considered by the President in connection with his plan for reorganization of the RFC. The statement continued: "Since the President knows of no evidence of illegal influence on the RFC by any member of the executive branch or the legislative branch, he sees no useful purpose in making public the Congressional correspondence. If, however, the subcommittee feels otherwise the material will be sent to the subcommittee of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee at its request."  The objective of this report seems to have been a reflection on the President himself. And I am sorry for that, because I have never in my life brought pressure on the RFC or any other agency of the Government to do anything except in the public interest. And all these RFC loans are supposed to be made in the public interest. And it is my opinion that they have been made in the public interest.  There may have been mistakes. There is no organization in Government, or in private business, or anywhere else, that can get through life without making mistakes. A man who makes no mistakes is a man who never does anything.  But as far as this report is concerned, I can't find out what the committee is driving at. I am going to have them come up, as soon as the chairman gets back to town-he left town when he found out I wanted to see him 7 --[laughter]--and maybe I can find out exactly what they are driving at. If I can, I, as President of the United States, will try to straighten out any difficulties with which the committee thinks they are faced-  7 Subcommittee Chairman J. William Fulbright was in Miami Beach, Fla. 
 That's right, and for their right to be heard, if there was anything that was not properly stated.  8 The Special Committee to Investigate the National Defense Program, chaired by Mr. Truman while in the Senate. 
 It was not done.
 It was not done. 
 I have that matter under consideration, and when I get ready to make the announcement I will let you know. 
 I shall expect to send down a reorganization plan substantially the same as I sent down in 1949. 
 That is one of the matters, yes. There are several others that I want to discuss with him.  9 Senator Burner R. Maybank of South Carolina, chairman of the Committee on Banking and Currency. 
 No, no. I don't want to discuss them publicly. I want to discuss them with the chairman first. I always give them that courtesy. 
 Well, I haven't come to a definite conclusion on that, but I am working on a reorganization plan. You see, a number of the Senators on this committee came down to see me some time ago, and talked about a reorganization plan for the RFC, and I told them that I would go to work on one. We are working on it. We can't do these things in 2 days. It takes a little while. 
 There is a possibility, but Commerce is where it belongs because it is a business proposition. 10     10  For the special message to the Congress transmitting the reorganization plan relating to the RFC, see Item 39.  
 Such a communication has not reached me. 
 I have no comment. The President is responsible for foreign policy, however. I thought you knew that, if you would read the Constitution.  
 That matter is under consideration by the proper authorities. I had a very pleasant meeting with those Senators, and the matter was referred for consideration to the Secretary of Agriculture and to the Production Control Administration.  
 I have no comment.  
 They are welcome to try. You know, they tried to squeeze water out of the budget the year before, and instead of squeezing it out they put about a billion and-a-half on to it, and then asked me to do the cutting, after the budget came to me. I am not going to do it this year for them. We will see how much water they can squeeze out of it. It is a good budget--a tight budget. I dare them to do anything to it.  
 I cannot understand what it is I am called upon to do? 
 I know nothing about it. I can't comment on it, because I don't know both sides of the question, and I don't usually make moves of that sort unless I know the facts. 11  11 Senate Resolution 63, submitted by Senator John J. Williams of Delaware, called for the removal from office of James W. Johnson, because of lack of administrative ability. It was referred to the Committee on Finance.  
 No comment.  12 On January 31, 1951, John J. McCloy, U.S. High Commissioner for Germany, and Gen. Thomas T. Handy, U.S. Commander in Chief, European Command, announced their decisions in a review of 101 war crimes sentences.  
 Mr. Hoover made all the announcement that is necessary. 13  13 Former President Herbert Hoover spoke to members of the press after his meeting with President Truman and administration officials to discuss the possibility of U.S. aid to India to relieve the famine caused by crop failures.  
 No, I have no comment on that, because legislation is not for my consideration until it reaches me. You never can tell what it is going to be until I get it. I will comment on it when it reaches me.  
 I have always felt that I had a full understanding with the Federal Reserve Board. I made that very plain in the letter which I wrote to them. 14  14 See Item 29. 
 No comment--
 No comment.  15 Marriner S. Eccles, member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. On February 4, the Washington Sunday Star carried an article entitled "Eccles Astonished by Truman Stand on Interest Rate Policy--Disputes Assumption that Board Supports Treasury Position." The article is reprinted in the Congressional Record, vol. 97, p. 1005. 
 Well, Tony, 16  we'll back up.   16 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  
 Well, anybody that understands figures knows what that would do to the budget. All you have got to do is figure it. You are a budget expert, you ought to know.  
 I have always thought you were one. 
 Yes. 
 He said did I understand that a majority of the Federal Reserve Board agreed with me, and I said yes I did understand that. In fact, I thought all of them did, because I was not present at their private meeting behind closed doors. All know is what they said to me in the meeting with me.    
 I do not. They ought to have asked Mr. Dawson to come down and be heard before they made this asinine report. That would have been fair. It is up to them. I have got confidence in Mr. Dawson. That is up to the committee, not me.  
 It will speak for itself, when it comes out. You will have to wait a little while. 
 AS to agreement. 
 Which side ran out on the agreement? That's all you need to do. Smitty,18 use your head!  
 That's the idea, exactly. The railroads are going to run no matter what it takes to run them. 
 Now wait until you read the order. I appreciate that you would like to know, but I am not going to give it to you until it comes out.  Merriman Smith : Mr. President, have you got anything else to say?   THE PRESIDENT. No, I haven't. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fifty-fourth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, February 8, 1951. 
