 Well, ladies and gentlemen, you have had all the announcements up to date. I haven't any announcements to make to you, so if you have any questions I will try to answer them.    I have no comment, for I learned it just about the same time you did.    That has nothing to do with Ohio politics. I appointed Mr. Sawyer because I thought he was the man best fitted for the place. Cabinet appointments are my individual business.    Well, I have a short statement here on the Italian election which I will read to you.  "Free peoples everywhere will be encouraged by the outcome of the recent Italian election. The results demonstrate once again the vitality of Italian democracy and the determination of the Italian people to maintain their freedom and their liberties." That's all I have to say.   No, it hasn't.    No comment.    Not that I know of. The University of California some time back invited me to make their address at commencement, and I told them I didn't know whether I could or not, they could invite me if they chose and I would come if I could. That is the only way I make engagements, and that is how that engagement was made. I will go if I possibly can, because I am very highly flattered that the University of California should want me to make the commencement address.   Not that I know of. When I get ready to announce any trip, you will all know in advance, so you can get your "duds" ready and take your lunch along, and we'll have a good time.    Yes, he did. He talked to me about it. I hope I can go. I can't make any firm appointments until I know what the situation is here.    I am not ready to answer that question, but I will answer it some time soon.    I sent for Commissioner Durr and offered him reappointment. I think he is a good public servant. But he told me he could not accept the reappointment for the simple reason that he was raising a family and he couldn't live on the salary that he was getting. I was very sorry, because he is a good public servant.  1 C. J. Durr, member of the Federal Communications Commission.    No comment. I am enforcing the law.   I have no comment to make on that. You had better ask the Speaker. He is not in the executive branch of the Government.    There was no switch from a 55 to a 66 group. The Secretary of Defense and the Chiefs of Staff came up here and discussed an increase in the appropriation for the ground forces and the air force. And Secretary Forrestal explained that very carefully in his statement to the committee, and I approved the statement.    That's their business. they want to cripple the operations of the Government, they will have to take the responsibility. I shall continue to make appointments as usual when they are necessary to be made.    No, he was here and I invited him to stay for the press conference.    Nothing whatever.     When I get ready to announce the appointment of the Secretary of Agriculture, I will let you know a few days in advance--if I can. If not, I will let you know on the day I make it.   Not yet, no. I will tell you just as soon as I can. I will tell you.    Mike Monroney was offered the job as Chairman of the Economic Advisers when that bill was passed with his assistance; and he refused to accept it.   I have had several conversations with him since then, on various subjects.     Mr. Sawyer will be at the Cabinet meeting in the morning. He can't get here tonight.    I have no comment to make on that. I haven't given it the study that it should have. I can't comment on it at this time.  This young lady wants to ask a question, then I'll be--    If Mr. Stalin wants to come here to see me, I will be very happy to see him. I don't expect to go out of the United States to attend any conferences at this time.    Do you remember Thomas Jefferson's comment on the John Marshall decision? If you don't remember that, you had better look it up.  1 Dr. Edward U. Condon, Director, National Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce.   I will tell you to read Thomas Jefferson's comment on John Marshall's decision.   It's "The Chief Justice made his decision, now let him enforce it."1  1 The President was quoting a remark commonly attributed to President Andrew Jackson, who is said to have made it in 1832 following a decision of Chief Justice John Marshall of the U.S. Supreme Court.  --now let him enforce it.    Yes, you may. You may do that.    No, I have no comment on that. That matter is pending before the United Nations.   We offered to furnish our share of a United Nations police force. That is the only way we will send troops anywhere under the United Nations. As a part of a United Nations police force for the enforcement of the orders of the United Nations, we will furnish our share, just as Mr. Austin said we would.   I wonder what authority the Commander in Chief has over troops anywhere? Read the history of the Mexican Veracruz thing -- Nicaragua -- Haiti--and several others. You will find out some things that maybe you don't know now.    A statement on that will be issued by the State Department before the day is over. That will cover the situation.    I mean a police force organized by the United Nations. I am not saying what troops because that is the business of the United Nations.   Whatever the contingency calls for.    It should be renewed, and renewed at once. I have said that to the Congress on a half dozen different occasions.   Well, that's not my fault. I am not running Congress.    If I did I couldn't tell you.   You are entirely welcome.
