 I have no particular announcements to make to you. I will try to answer questions, though, if you want to ask them.  \. Did you ever hear of any like that in Washington?  \. I have no comment.  \. I have no comment on that one.  \. No, I haven't. You know that Governor Griswold was in Germany at one time, then went to Greece. He is a good man. If they want to appoint him, it's all right with me.  \. Sure do. The Brannan farm plan is going to be passed. \. This session. \. All right. \. The Brannan farm plan will be passed by the 81st Congress. I will amend it that way. Might not get quite all, this Congress, but some of it--some of it has already gone through. \. No. The news reports left that impression, but the people who were running that meeting out there didn't leave that impression.  1 The Midwest regional conference of Democratic leaders held in Des Moines, Iowa, on June The conference was made up of party officials from the thirteen States in the Midwest Democratic Conference and from Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. The main purpose of the conference was to organize support for the Brannan farm plan.  See note to Item 90 for further information on the Brannan plan. \. That is not the objective at all. We are trying to carry out the Democratic platform with regard to what was said for the farmer, and that is what we are going to try to do. \. I do. I have always believed that. That has always been my policy.  \. No, I do not. I think Lewis Strauss is a good man. I have requested him to stay on the Commission, and he is going to stay there.  \. I am not familiar with the situation.  3  James E. Webb, Under Secretary of State.  \. I think that question is pretty well answered in a cartoon in the Washington Post this morning. Look at that cartoon, 4  it will entertain you.  4 The cartoon appeared in the Washington Post of June 16, 1949. It depicts two members of the House Committee on Un-American Activities surveying a huge pile of textbooks that had been sent to the Committee while one says, "Okaysnow to find somebody that can read."  \. I hadn't heard anything about it. \. No, I don't know.  \. The administration's viewpoint on that subject will be expressed in the Economic Message that goes down in the middle of the year. We are preparing it now. 5   5  See Item 151.  \. No comment.  \. No, not for final decision. It has been discussed with me, but no--  \. Yes, I gave it to you once before. I am going to suggest that you read the history of the Alien and Sedition laws in 1790 under almost exactly the same circumstances, and you will be surprised at the parallel; and then also read how they came out.  \. No, I do not.  \. I know nothing about it. I will take care of that when it comes up here, if it does come before me. I have expressed my opinion on that on several occasions, but if a bill of that kind comes up, you will know what I will do when it gets here.  \. Well, continue to read your history through Jefferson's administration, and you will find what the remedy was. Hysteria finally died down, and things straightened out, and the country didn't go to hell, and it isn't going to now. \. Yes. I think he made a mistake on that.  He released a Federal Judge, too, if I am not mistaken, under the Alien and Sedition laws. \. Well, it began in John Adams's administration, and ran through part of Jefferson's. \. 1797--about 1798. \. Such things happen after every great crisis. They happen after every great war. They happened after the First World War. Remember the crazy things the Ku Klux Klan did when they began to try to clean up, and what a fiasco they made of it in Indiana? We go through that every time we go through a crisis in this country.  \. It's what the law calls for. \. It's routine.  \. I am. I will clean them out if they are.  \. Certainly. I have always done that. That is not new at all.  6  According to newspaper reports, Military Government officials had requested the Department of the Army to engage Gordon R. Clapp, chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, as a 90-day specialist to work with the Army in Germany. The Military Government was officially notified that Clapp was "unemployable."  Upon being informed of the report Secretary of the Army Gordon Gray stated on June 9, 1949, that the Army had never investigated Mr. Clapp and "had absolutely no derogatory information about him which would warrant his not being employed by the Army for security or any other reasons."  A statement to the press by the National Military Establishment added that examination of its files, including those of the Army General Staff's Military Intelligence Division, "shows nothing reflecting on Mr. Clapp which, in any way, would cause the Department of the Army to question his loyalty or employability under Military Intelligence standards of security or for any other reason."  The word "unemployable," the statement explained, was used as a result of "an unreviewed action by a junior officer, acting upon a request for personnel received from Military Government in Germany." The situation had developed from "an unfortunate misinterpretation of the word 'unemployable.'" The word had been used in the past to designate people who were unavailable as well as those who were thought to be security risks.  \. Yes, I will announce it as soon as I have decided on the appointment.  \. No. I have no comment on that particular statement, but as soon as the reorganization bill is passed, we will proceed with the reorganization plans as fast as we can get them ready. I just want to remind you that there was a reorganization law on the books when I became President, and I sent 7 reorganization plans to the Congress, 4 of which were approved and 3 of which were rejected. I asked for the extension of that reorganization law, and the Both Congress refused to make that extension. I had an interview with some Members of Congress and suggested the action under which the bipartisan commission headed by Mr. Hoover was appointed. The thing for the Congress to do is to pass the Reorganization Act, and the reorganization will take care of itself. \. I can't answer that. I don't know. We will have to see how it works. \. Constitutionality is not questioned at all that I know of.  \. He did not. \. He makes reports to me, from time to time, and I confer with him through the Attorney General. \. No-- \.--not for me to clear up. It isn't for me to clear up. \. I have never heard of it. I just answered it. I know nothing about it. \. Hoover has done a good job. \. That is what it is. \. You make your own assay of the situation. You can do as well as I can. \. Yes. Every effort has been made to protect those executive papers, but it is not the policy of the Executive to interfere with the judiciary when they make up their mind that they are trying to give somebody a fair trial.  7 The reporter was probably referring to the disclosure of certain FBI reports in connection with the trial of Judith Coplon. \. That would relieve the Executive of having to make the decision. \. No, no. None at all. \. No comment on that. \. No. No reason to take it up with me.  8 The FBI reports made public in connection with the trial of Judith Coplon mentioned Mrs. Emilie Condon, wife of Dr. Edward U. Condon, Director of the National Bureau of Standards. The press reported that Dr. Condon had demanded a "personal apology" from J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  \. I have no comment on that. They are sitting at a peace conference over in Switzerland, and there will be no comment on anything that takes place there, because we are one of the mediators.  \. The report on the fourpower conference will be made by Mr. Acheson when he gets back. \. I do favor it. I do favor it. They are working on it now.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and eightysixth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, June 16, 1949. 
