  I just have two announcements to make this morning. I am going to reappoint J. Russell Young as Commissioner of the District of Columbia; and Rosel Hyde to the Republican vacancy on the Federal Communications Commission.  And that is all I have to say to you, unless you have some questions to ask. 
 Rosel--R-o-s-e-l--Hyde-vacancy on the Federal Communications Commission. He has been the Counsel for the FCC. 
 Idaho -- comes from Idaho. That is R-o-s-e-l H. Hyde. 
 Yes.  
 That's the first I have heard of it. No communication like that between Mr. Crum and me.  
 No, it has not. The Secretary of Labor has been handling it. 
 Well, I do think so.  
 Yes, I told her I would like to pay a visit to Chile. You know, it was arranged for me to take a South American tour on the 20th of April last year, and conditions developed so I couldn't do it; but she is a very charming person and she made a good impression on me.  
 Yes. 
 It is not; and the Security Council will not be postponed. 
 That's right. 
 If he brings the subject up, I will discuss it with him.  
 No comment.  
 If they were joining the progressive Democrats to put over some of my measures, I would be very happy to have them help.  
 I didn't know they were. That's news to me.  I didn't know. Maybe somebody was hungry.  
 Oh, is that it?  
 Well, if it becomes absolutely necessary, I wouldn't object to the return to wartime food rationing; but that situation has not yet arrived, and I hope it will not be necessary.  I was very sorry to see Governor Lehman quit, but he has been in ill health ever since I have been here, and wanted to quit immediately after I came in.  
 Why, the Director of the Budget will appear before the committee and explain that--the whole situation. There is a complete misunderstanding on that subject, and it ought to be entirely cleared up. The statement made by the Navy is not in line with the facts. 1  1 A White House release dated March 8 announced the transmittal to the Congress that day of the Navy budget , stating that the estimates for naval appropriations for fiscal year 1947 totaled $3,725 million with an additional $500 million to be transferred from the naval central procurement fund. The release pointed out that the recommended appropriations together with a recommended appropriation of $134 million for the Coast Guard would total slightly less than the estimate of $4,500 million included in the budget submitted to the Congress by the President in January. It noted, however, that net new authority to obligate under the recommendations for the Navy and Coast Guard was about $234 million above the amount contained for this purpose in the January budget estimate.  
 Only incidentally. That's a political speech.  
 No such announcement will be made.  
 I would like to use Mr. Pauley very much. He still has a job to do on the Reparations Commission. He will continue with that until it is finished. Then I will discuss that with him.  
 No. The United Nations Organization is supposed to take over the things that were discussed at Big Three meetings, and I think the United Nations Organization ought to take that responsibility if we are going to have peace in the world. I would be very glad to see any members of the Big Three at any time. 
 I am not asking for a Big Three meeting.  
 Secretary of State. 
 The Secretary of State. It will be a message of welcome to the United States. 
 I think you had better attend the meeting. That's the best way to find out.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're entirely welcome.
