 I have no special announcements to make this morning, but I will try to answer questions, if I can.  
 Dr. Jessup has been made Special Ambassador, in view of the work that he has been doing for the United Nations, and to give him a better place in negotiating in that organization.  
 I certainly do. 
 It will be--I think it's already up there, isn't it?  Dr. Steelman: It isn't ready yet.  THE PRESIDENT. It isn't ready. It will go up right away. My position is just the same as it was when I read the message to the Congress. I think it's just as necessary as it was then.  
 I have no comment. I didn't see the criticism. I have not been officially notified of it except from your question just now.  
 I have no comment.  
 The Secretary of Agriculture will appear before the proper committee and make that perfectly clear when he goes over there. 
 Just as soon as the committee is ready to hear him.  
 That question has been answered time and again in the Congress. I would advise you to read the record. It hasn't changed any.  
 I gave him all the advice I possibly could during the campaign.   
 No, I don't think so. I think--I think the good lady was mistaken.  
 That statement had my entire approval. 1   1 Secretary Acheson's statement of February 9 is published in the Department of State Bulletin . The statement referred to the trial of Jozsef Cardinal Mindszenty as a "conscienceless attack upon religious and personal freedom." The statement continued as follows:  "In their conduct of the case of Cardinal Mindszenty, the Hungarian authorities do not appear to have omitted any of the usual methods practiced by a police state. Such proceedings constitute not the administration of justice but wanton persecution. They have evoked universal condemnation, and the Hungarian Government must bear full responsibility for its action.  "The cases of Cardinal Mindszenty and other Hungarian Church leaders are not isolated developments. During the past 2 years, with governmental Power entirely in the hands of the minority Communist party, the people of Hungary have been increasingly denied the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Parliamentary opposition, an element indispensable to the democratic process, has been ruthlessly eliminated, the totalitarian controls of state and party have been laid like a deadening hand upon every phase of daily personal existence, and the Hungarian people have been divested of any real independence.  "The people of the United States, and, without question, peoples of other freedom-loving nations, are sickened and horrified by these developments and fully comprehend the threat they constitute to free institutions everywhere." 
 It has been stated that their action is in violation of certain treaties. It hasn't been carried out to the logical conclusion. I think the treatment of the Cardinal is infamous, and it will go down in history as one of the black spots on Hungary's historical career. 
 It has been suggested that it is in violation of treaties. I don't know whether it is or not. 
 Which carried on a kangaroo court like that. 
 The nation. The nation is responsible for its government. 
 I said that that matter is being investigated. I have no more comment to make on it, because I don't know. The experts haven't reported to me yet. 
 Yes. 
 I can't answer that intelligently, but in a police state the people are never really responsible for their government, and Hungary certainly is a police state. 
 In most any police state, the people are never responsible. 
 No, you did not. 
 No, no. I did not say that Mr.--[pause]--Godwin --[laughter]--  Mr. Godwin: Godwin.  THE PRESIDENT.--asked me the question if the action of the--in the trial of the Cardinal did interfere with treaties which various nations had with Hungary. I said that had been suggested but an investigation is being made; but I can't answer that question now. 
 Well, he said would that go so far as to involve breaking off relations. That has not been under consideration. 
 Well, when you speak of a nation you speak of its government always. 
 What else--what other way can you adopt to make a nation except 
 That's what I mean--I am speaking of the government of the country of Hungary. It is a national government, undoubtedly, even if it is a police state. 
 That's right. 
 That's right, that's the way I look at it. The people are entirely distinct from that. I think if the people had their say, they wouldn't have that kind of government.  
 The Chairman of the Atomic Energy Committee made no such statement. Categorically he told me yesterday that he made no such statement. And of course I am not in favor of disclosing that. It is not a matter for public discussion. 
 He said he had made no such statement as that, that he did not believe that way at all, and that that is a matter that is not for public discussion now. I don't want to comment on it at all. 
 I don't know about that. I hadn't discussed it with him. 
 That's correct. 
 To Lilienthal. I was referring to the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.  
 Yes, I am. I am just as strong for it now as I was when I asked for it in the message. 
 Just as advisable then as now, for the simple reason that it doesn't affect the expenses of the Government, and we are trying to avoid a deficit.  
 I have been invited, but I made no appointment.  
 I have no comment to make on that. 
 He hasn't asked for an interview.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
