 Please be seated, gentlemen.   I changed the arrangement around a little bit, and we have set some microphones around all over the place so that everybody can hear. I think this will probably be a more satisfactory arrangement, to have this desk up here from the other corner.  I have no special announcements to make. If you have any questions, I will make an endeavor to answer them.  
 I haven't gone into the plan, and I don't think we can decide on plans until the treaty is ratified. After that we will go into plans.  2 See Item 99  
 That's quite a statement. I have no comment on it. 
 Well, let's wait a little further until history is made, and then we will see. 
 Well, it takes a politician to become President of the United States. I will say that you have to have.  
 I never had any ill feeling toward Jimmie Roosevelt. He supported the ticket in 1948, after it was nominated.  
 I would like to see a Democrat Governor in California. 
 Yes.  
 No, I have no comment on that. The budget speaks for itself. And the budget has been carefully made up by me on every occasion since I have been President. And it is a good budget, and it is as tight as it could be made.  3 Edwin G. Nourse, former Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. 
 I don't think there is anything to that.  
 I think the Senator is unduly alarmed. I think he is unduly alarmed. I think the situation now is not nearly so bad as it was in the first half of 1946. I think it is improving. Maybe I am an optimist, but I have to be, to be President of the United States. 
 My comment on the statement that Senator Tydings made yesterday, that we were close to a shooting war with Russia.  
 Mr. Lie came to see me to pay me a courtesy call, the second call he has made at my office since he has been the Secretary General of the United Nations. He made the statement to me then, at that meeting, that he expected to call on the heads of states and discuss world affairs with all of them. I did not go into detail with him on what he intended to discuss with anybody, and we only discussed the welfare of the world and the hope for peace. 
 I have no comment to make on that. 
 I didn't have anything but just a plain, everyday discussion with Mr. Lie. He was paying me a courtesy call, and we had the usual conversation.  
 Isn't that an old argument? Hasn't that been the argument of the "anti's" ever since the Marshall plan was instituted? The reason for the deficit is because the Congress has not given the necessary taxes to carry on the Government of the United States. Since we are fighting the cold war, we have to use every means at our command to do it. The Marshall plan is one of the principal means in fighting that cold war. It will be cheaper than a shooting war would be, as I have said time and time again.  
 I haven't noticed any particular growing concern. The people have always been uneasy about an organization that believes in the overthrow of the Government of the United States by violence. And I don't think there is any unusual trend in that direction. At least, I haven't heard about it.  
 I think that the Florida primary campaign was a Florida campaign, and certain issues entered into that which have no bearing whatever on the national picture.  
 I have been informed by the various departments of the Government that the Finance Minister of the Argentine Republic is up here negotiating some loans, and things of that sort. They have--the situation has not been put up to me for a decision. I think I should look favorably on it, when it is put up to me. 
 Yes.  
 The defense budget next year will be smaller than it is this year, and we are continually cutting it by economies. And we are not alarmed in any sense of the word. We are simply maintaining a defense program that is adequate for the defense of this country. 
 We have asked for some contract authorizations for the purchase of some planes. The other increase is some savings that have already been made. Read the statement of the Secretary of Defense before the committee down there and you will have the whole thing just as it is.  
 I will not. I will not. Their fears are unfounded and unnecessary, I will say that right here.  
 Yes. President Hoover called on me, at my suggestion, to discuss the reorganization plans that are now before the Senate and the House. And incidentally his speech of a night or two ago was brought up. Mr. Hoover and I are not in agreement on the United Nations program. I am in full support of the United Nations, both as an individual and as President of the United States. The United Nations is organized for the purpose of discussion of problems with which nations are faced, in the hope of arriving at a peaceful settlement of these problems. It is working, in most instances. We shall continue to support the United Nations as long as I am President of the United States.  I discussed the other section of President Hoover's speech, which was the mobilization of the moral forces of the world against the unmoral forces of the world. I have been trying to do that for 5 years, and we are having some success in that. And I complimented him on that part of his speech. I did not agree with him on his proposed reorganization of the United Nations, and we are perfectly friendly, Mr. Hoover and I are.  
 He has not. Senator Taylor has been, of course--he is a United States Senator from Idaho. When we go through Idaho, I will be glad to see the Senator from Idaho and shake hands with him, as I will with every other public official. But no one has been specifically invited to ride on the train, except the President's party and a few newspapermen. 
 I will see any of them that want to see me, but I am not inviting people to ride on the train out in the States where there are primary fights. I try to be as neutral and fair about it as possible--be as polite to the public officials as I can.  
 I have no comment to make on anything McCarthy may say. It isn't worth commenting.  
 Of course, I would be very glad to come to Richmond or Nashville, Tenn., at any time, under the proper auspices. And I think Gabrielson is rather optimistic in his prognostication. He can't get those two States, I will say that definitely and categorically right now.  6 Chairman, Republican National Committee. 
 Well, I haven't finished the analysis of it yet. It seems to be in good order. I am very happy that it passed, and I hope to be able to sign it.    7 See Item 120.  
 Well, we will cross that bridge when we get to it. I think that it should be done. 
 No emergency is here yet. We are working out plans that are adequate, and those plans are not for publication. 
 We are studying foreign systems in every country in the world. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
