  Well gentlemen, this is the hundredth press conference that I have held. I have nothing special to tell you because all the announcements have all been made, but I thought you might have a question or two you might like to ask me so I'd let you in.  \. They asked for the conference, and I guess they will state what the purpose is when they get here.  \. He is speaking for himself. My letter answers that question. 1   1  On March 25 the White House released an exchange of letters between the President and Arthur Bliss Lane, Ambassador to Poland. Mr. Lane offered his resignation, effective March 31, stating his belief that he could do more for U.S.-Polish relations "if I should revert to the status of a private citizen and thus be enabled to speak and write openly, without being hampered by diplomatic convention, regarding the present tragedy in Poland." In accepting Mr. Lane's resignation the President said, "I am well aware of the difficulties which confronted you in the performance of your mission to Poland and appreciate the vigorous efforts which you made to persuade the Polish Provisional Government to fulfill its pledges with respect to the holding of free elections in Poland."  \. No comment.  \. NO. \. He isn't going back.  \. Who ? Yes, I am sure he will go back.  \. On you?  \. Well, you really put me on the spot, Miss May, 1  but I enjoy these press conferences immensely, and I want to say to you that I think you have been eminently fair to me ever since we started, and I can't tell you how much I appreciate it. I think everybody here has tried his best to give the facts as they are. I have no quarrel with you at all.  1  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  \. As soon as we possibly can, we will appoint successors, and I will announce those immediately so that you will have them right away. \. Well, that is up to him. I don't know whether he is going to remain or not.  \. I had a very pleasant talk with Mr. Pawley on conditions in Brazil, and it is--that was about all there was to it. He was just making a report to me on conditions as they are--very optimistic report.  \. Well, I sincerely hope that the Congress will act as promptly as possible and that it will not be necessary to have the stopgap. \. Then we will take that matter up when it confronts us.  \. The first time I saw it was in the paper.  \. I don't like to anticipate Senator Austin's speech. He is going to make a speech Friday, which will cover the whole situation.  \. He spoke to me about it. \. Afterward. \. You had better ask Gael!\. NO, I think not.  \. Yes, I always was left-handed. \. I don't know what effect the shoes have on it. We'll find out, maybe, when they come.  \. I hope that prices will not continue to rise. I sincerely hope that business will see the handwriting on the wall and hold prices so there will be no spiral later. \. Yes I would. A great many of them have been doing that. For instance, International Harvester Company, and Ford, and one or two others--which I have seen in the paper.  \. I will talk to you about that when it comes to me. I don't know what is in it and I don't know what will be in it until it gets to my desk. I will give you the answer when it comes.  \. What was that? \. Well, I mean by that I don't want to see a spiral in prices which will cause inflation and which will cause another round of clamoring for wage increases. It just never stops, unless we can stop it now. \. I have been concerned all along. \. Yes, of course. That's the reason I asked for it. The situation, I think, though, will build up along lines that will be for the best interests of the country. That is my opinion now. And the Economic Council is making a complete survey of the situation on which they will make a report to me very shortly. \. Yes.  \. I beg your pardon? \. Well, I think the negotiations are going forward in good shape. The settlement in the rubber situation did not cause an increase in prices, and I hope that the other negotiations will end up the same way.  \. I never have thought so. But that bill hasn't reached me yet. It still has to pass the Senate. \. Yes, it is. \. Oh no, it has.-- \. No, I would rather discuss that when the bill is before me.  You see, it isn't--it hasn't passed.-- \. -- it hasn't become a matter of legislation, and I don't like to comment on things that are pending in the Congress. Only one time that I made a comment on things pending in the Congress and that was when I suggested Congress should raise their salaries, if you remember, last year.   \. I have no comment on that. He was speaking for himself, however. That is pending in Congress, and I will attend to that when it comes down before me.  \. I think the speech speaks for itself. I think it was made very clear, that the speech was made hoping that it would contribute to peace.  \. Well, there isn't any bill pending as yet. When it comes up here, I will comment on it. I have made comments on it in the Message, I think, on the State of the Union.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundredth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, March 26, 1947. 
