 Please be seated.   I want to call your attention, first, to a booklet that has been gotten out by the State Department on forced labor in the Soviet Union. 1  It is available and most-it's most interesting.  1  "Forced Labor in the Soviet Union," Department of State publication 4716 .   "I know most of you are probably aware that the United Nations has been investigating the practice of forced labor. The United States has been most anxious that the facts be made known. I therefore want to call your attention today to this factual expose of forced labor in the Soviet Union and its satellites which was compiled by the Department of State. It contains many vivid examples of what it means to live under the present Soviet rulers, and indicates the scope of this practice in the Russian sphere and its economic and political significance.  "With the urging and support of labor organizations, particularly American labor and the International Confederation of free Trade Unions, the United States and Great Britain requested the United Nations to investigate forced labor wherever it exists in the world. As a result, the United Nations created a special committee headed by an outstanding Indian leader."  I can't pronounce his name, so you will have to read it--Sir Ramaswami Mudaliar.   "This committee held hearings in New York in June and will continue its investigation in Geneva beginning October 14. The United States Government made available to the United Nations committee such evidence as it had of forced labor in the Soviet sphere. The State Department has summarized all these facts in this booklet"--which is most interesting reading. And it's written in language that is easy to read.  It hasn't very many State Department words in it, so you will have a good time reading it.   Mr. Perimeter. 2  Mr. President, we have copies for them.  THE PRESIDENT. Irv tells me that there are copies available at the door when you go out. I am ready for questions.  2  Irving Perimeter, Assistant Press Secretary.  
 I know no such conversation took place. And the Chief of Staff would never refuse an order from the Commander in Chief, I know that, if he had one--which he did not, in this case. 
 No. 
 No such conversation took place, and I know that the Chief of Staff of the United States Army would not tell the Commander in Chief that he would not obey an order. That just isn't done.  Roger 3  informs me that somebody else might have had a conversation. I am talking from my own knowledge. No conversation took place so far as I am concerned. Never thought of any such conversation, cause the strike was settled before it was necessary to do anything.  3  Roger Tubby, Assistant Press Secretary.
 I am sorry that the informed sources are grossly misinformed.  
 Of course it didn't.  
 Yes. The national committee did, which represents Governor Stevenson. He is in agreement with it, I can assure you of that. 
 How's that? 
 Oh, yes. I expect to stay there until the thing is over.  
 No. Not that I know of. I know nothing about any such conversation. It has just come out of the free air just lately. It's a political proposition entirely. 
 Yes, go ahead.  4  Jack Romagna, White House Official Reporter.
 DO you know what the question was ? 
 All right, read it.    I think I said that the strike was settled before the message to the Congress was completed; it was settled while I was reading the message.  
 I can answer the question better, after the trip.  
 I am not a candidate this time.   5  Leslie L. Biffle, Secretary of the Senate.  
 What was the question? 
 I am not an authority on Republican majorities, so I can't tell you.   
 No, I do not. The parts of it that can be made public have been made public, I am sure. I do not intend to release the report.  
 I would refer you to the statement of the candidate for President, Governor Stevenson. I think he answered it completely. 
 That's the one. 
 I don't know anything about Ohio politics, and I can't answer the question. The best thing for you to do is to go out there and talk to Lausche .6   6  Governor Frank J. Lausche of Ohio, Democratic candidate for reelection, defeated Republican candidate Charles P. Taft, brother of Senator Robert A. Taft, in the election held on November 4.  
 If he wants to see me, of course I will be glad to see him, but he is a very busy man. I don't know whether he will have time to see me this time or not, but I will be glad to see him. 
 No special arrangements have been made. We may accidentally run into each other. If he wants to see me, I will be glad to see him; and if I want to see him, he will be glad to see me.  We are in perfect agreement.  
 He impressed me as being a very able and decent citizen, and one that any Democrat can endorse for the United States Senate; and I hope he wins.  
 No, I don't. 
 I don't know what time he is coming through. I can't answer the question. Ask Governor Stevenson about his plans. I didn't make them. I make my own-- 
 I will be back in town just as fast as the plane can bring me, after we have lunch up there. It ought to be around 3 o'clock, I judge.  
 Governor Stevenson's speeches impressed me as being excellent, and if the Republicans don't like these humorous jibes at themselves, I am sorry that their hide is so tender.   
 I would not. I will answer that on a whistlestop one of these days, and tell you what kind of socialism we've got. It's pretty good.  
 The Democratic campaign is being handled in good shape. If you will read all the screams in the Republican press, that's enough to convince you.  
 I never have had to do that. I don't think I'll start at this late date.  In fact, I would just as soon do without the confetti and the balloons. It gets in your hair. 
 I don't know. I haven't the slightest idea. I will just go where I'm told, and stop where I'm told. 
 Well, let us say we made maybe the same speech 64 times; but it accomplished the purpose.  I will stop wherever they want me to, and do the best I can. And to tell you the honest truth, I always enjoy it. I had a good time coming across West Virginia the other day.  Reporter. We enjoyed it, too. Thank you, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. It's all right.
