 I have a few announcements to make.   Paul R. Rowen of Boston will be appointed to the Securities and Exchange Commission. He will fill the vacancy resulting from the resignation of James J. Caffrey, December 31. Rowen is a Government service career man since 1924. He has served in the various departments. Has had more than 9 1/2 years' experience with SEC. Since November 1941 he has been Regional Administrator of the SEC for New England.   I am nominating John Thad Scott, Jr., of Texas, to be a member of the National Mediation Board, for the term expiring February 1st, 1951.   The National Mediation Board.   Expires February 1st, 1951.   And I have a statement I want to read to you about the Treasury's bond drive: "The Treasury Department's plans for an intensified campaign for the sale of savings bonds have my complete support.  "In response to the widespread feeling of retailers, bankers, farm leaders, industrialists, heads of organized labor, and citizens, generally, in all walks of life that the savings bonds program can serve the Nation in peace as it did during the war, a special sales drive will begin April 15 and continue through June 30. It will be known as the Security Loan.  "I call upon Americans to participate in this Security Loan in every way possible, whether through the purchase of more sayings bonds or by serving as volunteer bond sellers or both. I hope that several million men and women will become volunteers in selling bonds to their friends and neighbors-selling them from door to door, office to office, bench to bench. It was this sort of bond selling during wartime that helped forge the home front unity without which victory on the fighting fronts might not have been achieved. The same sort of effort is needed now.  "I said November 17 in my special message to Congress,  1  and I reiterate, that every dollar saved instead of spent is a dollar fighting against inflation.  1  See 1947 volume, this series, Item 224.  "The Security Loan appeals to me as a family campaign. Every family should be a Security Loan team, contributing its maximum. This will safeguard the Nation's economic strength."   The Treasury will announce that.    No. The SEC elects its own Chairman. That is one of the few   R-o-w-a-n, I believe--wait, I'll look. R-o-w-e-n--Paul R. Rowen--e-n-from Boston.    I will make an announcement on that as soon as I am ready. I can't make it today.    No. Action has not been taken. His date of leaving is some time in the future. Trying to have it worked out before he leaves.    I can answer that better as soon as the legislation becomes effective. Then we'll see what the proper action is to take. The matter is pending in the Congress now.    The only comment I have to make is the same comment that I made when the law became effective over the veto, that I am here to enforce the law, and it will be enforced. My comments you refer to are just as vigorous and in the same mood as I was then.   The White House has not communicated. I only know what I saw in the paper. But the Justice Department is doing its duty--as set out in the law, as it always does.    No, I have no comment.   The United States Government is supporting the United Nations. That is as far as I can go.    Yes.   Yes.   I can answer that a little later on. Can't tell what the final report on this situation is, and I can't comment on that until I know more about it. We are keeping tab on the thing, and all the agencies of the Government are working on just what the situation means, and you will be informed as soon as I am ready to make a decision on it.    I do not. I do not. It hasn't affected that at all. Those were standby controls that were asked for.    No, I do not.    Of course it is.    Can't comment because I haven't talked to either one of those gentlemen.   I do. I certainly do.    I am. And I shall be hopeful until the Congress adjourns.     No. The 10-point program covered that situation.   Yes.   I think it is.   Now, you needn't put what I think into the question, because I can't answer it.   All right then, ask it, and see if I can answer it or not.   Yes, I do.    Because I have been-several times in the past have attempted to make a visit to Puerto Rico and did not manage to get there. When a native Puerto Rican was made Governor of Puerto Rico  1  by this administration, I was anxious to pay him a visit, and see just how the Puerto Ricans are getting along. And I understand that he has made a great Governor.  1  Governor Jesus T. Pinero of Puerto Rico.    I told you some time past that I would give you a lecture on architecture and the balcony, and I will do that at a later date.     Well, that wouldn't be anything new. They used to have cows, pigs, and chickens in that yard. It isn't necessary nowadays.    Well now, you will have to make up your own mind on that. Andrew Jackson had a fuss with the same Fine Arts Commission on putting a porch on the north side up, at that time.   The south is still the from.   That's what General Eisenhower told you, but I don't think General Eisenhower or anybody else can do it that has ever been in public life.   No--[laughter]--not on this porch.   No. No, it is not.   You're welcome.
