 I have no announcements to make. I will try to answer as many questions as I can.  \. Turn around there and ask it.  1 Testifying before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee on July 26, Bernard M. Baruch offered a plan calling for immediate and all-out national mobilization that would include price, wage, and rent controls as well as rationing.  He stated that the administration's proposals for production incentives, priorities and allocations, and consumer credit restrictions were excellent, but he declared that the program did not go far enough. \. My comment is my message to the Congress.  \. Sure. \. No.  2 State Senator Emery W. Allison of Missouri, candidate for the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate. \. He wanted to know if I was going to the Allison rally in St. Louis Saturday. No, I am not.  \. I hope that can be done. I was very fond of Jack Cochran. He was a very great friend of the veterans. 3    3 John J. Cochran, former Representative from Missouri. \. I will consult General Gray on the subject, and then I will answer your question. 4  4 Carl R. Gray, Jr., Administrator of Veterans Affairs.  \. He wanted to know if I would comment on statements by Mr. Churchill and General de Gaulle that Europe is in mortal fear of aggression. I have no comment.  \. I have, and I think they are the right ones, or I wouldn't have done it. \. They know more about it than I do. I have never heard of that. \. That's right, and he is in control of the matter. 5    5 W. Stuart Symington, Chairman of the National Security Resources Board.  \. There has been a 30-day delay on account of the fact that the Interior Department was not ready to assume control. We are going to try to get civil government on Guam as promptly as we possibly can.  \. Well, we want to be very careful in times like these that we don't get in the alien and sedition mood of 1798. The Bill of Rights is still a part of the Constitution of the United States, and a most important part. That doesn't mean that we are going to overlook any operation to see that traitors and saboteurs are properly taken care of.  \. Whenever it is necessary for price controls and wage controls, and manpower allocations, why the step will be taken altogether. \. I do not. \. The tax situation is one that should be worked out on a basis of equity for all concerned. It is a very controversial subject, particularly what you call excess profits taxes. The reason I asked for a direct levy on incomes and corporations, I think that can be done promptly. And then after the election is over this fall, it will give the Congress a chance to work out an equitable tax program, which they should have done 4 years ago. \. No--not right now. \. Depends on the world situation, and the situation at home, of course. \. We will cross that bridge when we get to it.  \. No.  \. Yes. The Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense, Mr. Harriman, 6  and the National Security Resources Board are working on a program now.  6 W. Averell Harriman, Special Representative in Europe for the Economic Cooperation Administration. \. He wanted to know about arms funds--arms aid to Europe. \. The Atlantic Pact countries.  \. We will attend to that when the time arises.  \. Well, you had better wait for a few more developments before we come to any conclusions on the subject. \. They wanted to know what I thought about world peace now, because I had said a month or 2 ago that I thought the prospects were better than they had been since 1945. I said we had better await further information before we make any statement on that subject now.  \. Civilian defense planning has been going on all the time. Civilian defense planning is most important, and we have been working at it strenuously ever since the program was authorized. And we are much further along with it than anybody has any idea about. Sometime or other we will be able to tell you about it, but not now.  \. I just voted in the primary-by an absentee ballot. \. I voted the Democratic ticket, and it's a secret ballot, and I am not going to tell you who I voted for.   \. I don't think there is any possibility of my getting out of Washington any time soon. I want to stay here on the job and do the best I can to help the situation along, and still hope reverently for world peace.  \. No. \. There has been no decision. \. No.  \. I would rather not comment on that. I think the communiqus of the New York Times covered the situation very well.  \. Please ask that question again. \. I still didn't understand what he was to be named for? \. That is under contemplation. \. No change in plan, no. No change in plan. We did that in Germany and we would like to do it in Austria, of course. 7  7 See Item 218.  \. No comment.  \. Yes, I am always contemplating that, May. 8   8 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. I am trying to get New England to wake up to the fact that they need a public power development over in that corner of the United States. We have a great public power development in the Northwest. We have one in the Southeast--one in the Southwest. New England is the only outfit that has been asleep at the switch on the subject. And then we have the middle part of the United States, which I am hoping to have developed in the same manner. You can't have too much power. \. Well, I have a commission working on that, May, and when they make a report, I will tell you what it is.  \. No, not at this time. We have nothing like that in sight, because there is no necessity for it.  \. That is correct. \. I haven't had time yet. The letter only went out day before yesterday. \. Yes, they are going to report to me--they report to the Budget and then to me.  \. They should, of course, yes. That will be all-out mobilization, and I hope we will not have to make an all-out mobilization. \. That is correct. Reporter: Thank you, sir. Note: President Truman's two hundred and thirtysecond news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, July 27, 1950. 
