  I have some reports I want to call your attention to. The Evaluation Board of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has put out a preliminary report, and the President's Evaluation Commission, headed by Senator Hatch, has put out a preliminary report, which I think is in the hands of most of you. Those of you who haven't it-those reports, they are available for distribution. They are merely preliminary reports, and do not go into details.   Then I have a very important report by Mr. Steelman's office--Mr. Steelman's report for this quarter, and it's--I would like to emphasize one or two things in it, if you like. This is also available-this is a statement, and I just want to take one or two things out of it for you:  Production by midyear reached the highest level ever attained in peacetime.  More people are working now than ever before--four and a half million more than in 1941, our highest prewar year.  Although public attention was focused on the soft coal and railroad strikes, the great majority of workers remained on their jobs. Fewer man-days of idleness due to industrial disputes were recorded during the last quarter than in the first 3 months of this year.  Our people are earning more money and they are purchasing a greater volume of goods than ever before in peacetime.  We are meeting in full our commitments to ship food to the starving peoples of the world.  We have made more progress than many thought possible toward providing new houses for our people.  Certainly, up to this point, runaway inflation has been prevented.  But as the seventh report of the Reconversion Director points out, all of the ground we have so laboriously won against inflation will be lost without workable price control. Every day that passes without a price control law on the books increases that danger. Now I am ready for questions.  
 Do you know what the OPA extension bill was in the last 5 minutes? What was the last amendment? I can't tell you what I will do with the OPA bill until it gets before me, because nobody knows what it's going to be.  
 No. Somebody may have recommended him, and I haven't--the letter may not yet have reached me.  
 Why certainly. That's what Paul Fitzpatrick came in here for, and I was glad to discuss politics with him. 
 He is very well educated in politics. No, I have no comment to make. 
 The Cabinet committees of Great Britain and the United States are now meeting on the implementation of the report of the Commission, and I have no comment to make at the present time.  
 No.
 Well, let's wait a little while to see about that.  
 No. Senator Wheeler's-not necessarily an endorsement. You can translate it that way, if you like. Senator Wheeler's--the opponent of Senator Wheeler--the manager of Senator Wheeler's campaign opponent issued a mimeographed letter which was an attack on me, and a vicious attack on Wheeler. It was so palpably untrue that I couldn't let it pass by without comment, so I wrote Senator Wheeler a letter about it. 
 I didn't say that. I said that in the primaries I dealt with politics only in Missouri. I am dealing with politics in every State in the Union. 
 I have no comment to make on that.  
 I have received that recommendation, and I am glad to get it. I have been trying to find a Puerto Rican who could act as Governor of Puerto Rico. 
 No. I haven't made a decision as yet. I will let you know immediately, when I make it.  
 I have no comment on that. That's the first I've heard of it.  
 They came up here, all the members of the committee--that is, most of them, Republicans and Democrats--and told me that they had some evidence on unconscionable war profits, and asked if they would have the cooperation of the administration in ferreting out these profits. And I told them they would have the full cooperation of the administration in that endeavor. 
 They have that cooperation. 
 They have not yet, but I imagine that they will; and if they have justification enough for them to be looked at, they will be given that permission.  
 Yes. 
 Well, there is nothing that transpired between Mr. Byrnes and myself that hasn't been in the newspapers. He will be home very shortly, and will immediately make a statement on the Paris conference, and I would prefer that he make the comments, because he was there. 
 I can't answer that. You will have to ask Mr. Byrnes about that. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
