 Gentlemen, I have no--and ladies--[ laughter ]--I have no special announcements to make to you this morning. If you have any questions you want to ask, I will try to answer them.    The meeting of the Cabinet on the quarterly review of the economic situation was a postponed meeting from the week before. There wasn't any special meeting for any special purpose. It was just simply a discussion of the situation, which is continuing.    I have stated that emphatically here, I think--as emphatically as it can be said.  1  Item 68.   Yes, the Department of Justice could. But I think, if the Department of Justice is consulted about the meeting, that it wouldn't.   Yes. We have had telegrams from several companies, and I am very much gratified that they are making the attempt to reduce the high price structure.    That's right.   The figures are not--the total figures are not available. We know that there will be a surplus, and I will announce the amount just as soon as I have the exact figures.    I think that can be done.   We are surveying situation, to see whether there is any action possible. You see, the price control law was repealed on the 30th day of last June, and an impossible price control bill was passed on the 25th of July which was not workable, and which came out just exactly as the veto message explained that it would come out. We have no real authority now, although we may--we are going to try to do everything we possibly can to meet the situation. That's what the discussion is for.   I haven't gone into that subject, but I think the veterans have been very liberally taken care of on that situation.    Is that the gentleman who had the center column in the New York Times this morning?    I wonder where he got his figures? It seems to me that he must have got his figures from the same place that Knutson got his $6 billion cut--I don't think from any reliable source.    I can't answer that question. I don't know.    Sure.   He just came in to discuss administrative matters in the District, which he does once in a while. We had a very pleasant conversation on the situation in the District.   I don't want to tell you anything about the conversation we had. It will come out later all right.    No, not that I know of. I don't think it has been handed to me as yet.    The reorganization bill in Congress was passed by it for that purpose.    The matter is under discussion. I can give you an answer on that at a later date.   That is a matter that the smart legal boys will have to work out. There is one decision of the Supreme Court which places a restriction on a unanimous price cut, just the same as it does on a unanimous price rise, and that will have to be examined by the Attorney General before any decision can be made.   They made some statements to the effect that some prices are likely to come down, and some have.   Certainly.   No I am not. I think a buyers' strike wouldn't help the situation at all.   Well, the buyers' strike is just like any other sort of strike. It stops the economic machinery from working and that always throws a monkey wrench into the machinery. You know--none of these strikes that we had last year helped anybody--hurt the whole economy of the country.   NO, I don't think so. I think our purchases have been enormously curtailed. I know that is a fact.   Well, I hope the strikes this year will not have the same effect they did last year; and I am hoping for settlement of the proposed strikes this year.   That's a different thing.   It would have the same effect as when a man can't sell his merchandise at his own price, he has to put them out at a price at which he can sell. That is supply and demand, if I know anything about free economy.    I hope it is possible. We are trying to find a way so that it will be possible. The Attorney General is working on it now.   I don't know anything about that. Have to go into the thing in detail. That is a matter for business itself to work out. Business wanted to be free of price control. They are free of price control. Now they will have to meet the situation.   That's all. That's all.    NO. It isn't for publication.    There were half a dozen of them. Their names will be released later. I haven't them before me now.    I haven't been asked to go into such a conference.    Yes. They were from concerns who have reduced prices as a result of the statement that was made here in the press conference last week and before.   That's right. That's right.   He said I was limited to moral persuasion on this thing. He is correct.   I have talked to a great many of them already.   Personally, yes.   Well--that is my business.    What's that?   Absolutely. Squarely on business. That is where they wanted it. They want free enterprise. They have got it. Now let's see if they will make it work.   No, that hasn't been brought into the subject--   --and the profits this year are, for the year 1947--have been very great.   I think you can handle it well enough without putting it in direct quotes.  You ought to be able to handle that.   1946, and the first-   the first quarter of 1947, and the whole of 1946, except the first quarter of 1946.   Very great profits.   I have been trying to fit labor into the picture ever since 1945, when the war ended. You remember we called a labor-management conference to try to work these things out together. Didn't succeed very well. And we have been, ever since, trying to arrive at adjustments between labor and management so that everybody could have a fair deal. Everybody ought to have a fair deal on this situation. If we get a fair deal for everybody, why the country will be all right.   Yes.    That is correct. On a parity basis, that is.   It has been under consideration.    Well, if you remember, the excess profits tax was repealed, with the idea that it would help business, and it was repealed for that purpose. It did help business, and therefore I am inclined to think that business appreciates that help and will make every effort to meet this situation. At least, I hope so.   I haven't seen the exact figures.    The situation is being considered by the Congress. I don't know what action they are going to take on it, and I can't make any prophecies as to what action they will take. Your guess is as good as mine on that.   Well, we can't answer that. We can't answer that question until we find out what the world crop situation will be in the coming year. Depends altogether on what that situation is. If there are tremendous farm surpluses, we would be faced with the same conditions that we were in the past on that subject.   The Government is committed for 2 years after the war. That is, 2 years from the 31st day of last December.   No. No. Can't go back on that commitment.    I feel that there is no necessity for a recession.    That is true.   The only concrete program I have has been put up to you right here. And we are surveying the situation now to find out just exactly what is in prospect, and then see what can be done about it. The repeal of price controls ended all control of the Government over prices.   No. I have no desire to restore price controls. Not be feasible at the present time, because what we are trying to do now is get prices to come down to a reasonable point.   Well, I don't think--I don't think you would have   No. No, no. I am not at all.   I don't think it is practicable to reinstitute price controls. I think people want to get away from controls. We want free enterprise in this country, but everybody has got to work at it, if we are going to have it.    Yes indeed. I thought it was very satisfactory. I am sorry they delayed so long in taking it.  1  On the previous day the Senate had confirmed David E. Lilienthal as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.    I am not ready to answer that question yet.   Yes. We are investigating that situation now.   No, I do not, at the present time. Congress is getting plenty of messages from the general public, I think!    Mr. Pepper was at the Democratic dinner the other night, and I received him very cordially. I have no desire to read anybody out of the Democratic Party.   Certainly.   We will take care of that situation when it arises. I think they will probably campaign for the Democratic ticket.    No.   You're welcome.
