  I have a letter here to Mr. Herbert Hoover--President Hoover-which is for release today, and a statement. If you like, I will read them to you. I haven't copies enough to go around, but Charlie Ross will distribute what I do have.   "Dear Mr. Hoover: Today I took occasion to reaffirm the importance which I attach to the work of the Commission to which you and your able colleagues are giving so generously of your time and experience. The field in which the Commission is working is one which calls most pressingly for action.  "There seems to be general agreement that the present organization of the executive branch, in many instances, imposes handicaps on effective and economical administration, and must be brought up to date. The task, as you and I have seen from our own experience, is to crystallize this general belief into concrete and wise proposals for action.  "The country is fortunate that a Commission, composed of men whose capacity in this field has been forged by experience, has devoted so much time and thought to the tremendous problems involved. I am most hopeful that its recommendations will go far to make sound and effective organization possible.  "If at any time the Commission's work can be facilitated by action on my part, you have but to let me know. Very sincerely yours."  Then the statement is like this:   "Among the important matters which will require early action by the 81st Congress is that of improving the organization of the executive branch of the Government. For over a year the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government has been at work studying the existing organization, the deficiencies, and proposals for its improvement. I attach the greatest importance to the early solution of the problems which lead to the establishment of this Commission.  "The executive branch under my instruction has in the past cooperated in every way to facilitate the work of the Commission and it will continue to do so. I am most hopeful that the Commission's report 1 will be a milestone in the development of a sound and economical structure and efficient procedures for the executive branch of the Federal Government.  1 A series of reports by the Commission was published in 1949.   "To this end, I have written to former President Hoover, Chairman of the Commission, offering assistance in this important work."  Charlie will distribute these, as far as they will go.   That's right. The Commission has been in existence, I imagine, more than a year, if I remember correctly.   I haven't. I'm sorry to say I haven't seen those recommendations. They are writing a report for me now.  2  In a news conference on November 11, Mr. Hoover disclosed that the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government would recommend an increase in Federal pay as a first step in obtaining more efficient, less costly Government.   I'm sorry to say I haven't read the report yet, personally.   It goes to me for submission to the Congress.    I have no plans. I would be happy to see Stalin in Washington, if he wants to come and see me.   No, I haven't.   I have none.    I received a message like that, but I have no comment on it, at the present time. General Marshall and-[inaudible]--prepared an answer which I have approved, and which will be released at a later date. 1   1  On November 13, 1948, Trygve Lie, Secretary General of the United Nations, and Herbert V. Evatt, President of the United Nations General Assembly, sent a communique to the heads of government of Great Britain, France, the United States, and the Soviet Union, appealing for four-power conversations to end the Berlin dispute. On November 17 Secretary of State Marshall answered the letter which had been sent to President Truman. He stated that the United States was willing to engage in conversations as soon as the Soviet Union lifted the Berlin blockade so that the negotiations could take place under conditions free from duress. He added that the United States was ready to take part in all efforts of the Security Council to solve the Berlin problem.  The text of the joint communique and Secretary Marshall's reply is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .   Our position is as it has always been, and that is the position.   That's correct, the position still remains the same.  I am expecting to see General Marshall and Mr. Harriman on the 22d of November, when I get back to Washington. They will both be there for discussion of all these questions.    The position hasn't changed, it's just the continuation of my program and the people endorsed it. I made my program perfectly clear on the 6th day of September 1945, and helped to write the platform of 1948. That platform of the Democratic Party to the best of my ability will be carried out, and you will find that the position has not changed since I have been President.   That is correct.   That's a matter that will have to be worked out legislatively, and there is--[inaudible]--standing by the Democratic platform, which calls for the repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act. It may require the rewriting of the Wagner Act in order to do--[ inaudible ]--because they are so tangled up now I can't tell one from the other.   Those recommendations still stand.   That's entirely possible.   Certainly.    I have no comment.    I have no comment to make on that till later. After I have talked to General Marshall I will comment on that.   I'll comment on that after I have talked to General Marshall. General Marshall and I are in perfect agreement on every question, don't worry about that, and I always have been.   General Marshall never wanted to do anything but retire since his retirement from the Army. He is serving as a patriotic duty, and General Marshall is one of the greatest patriots in this country.    I have no comment on that.  1 Dr. Chaim Weizmann, Provisional President of Israel.   I imagine it was. I have had all sorts of communiques from Israel and from the Arabs, but I have no comment on either subject.   I have no comment on that.  2  Excerpts from the report, signed by Count Folke Bernadotte on September 16, 1948, are printed in the Department of State Bulletin .    That's right.   I'll tell you all about that in the Budget Message, and in the Economic Report which will come out about the first week in January. We are working on that now.   Now you have made a lot of assumptions in this last campaign, you'd better not make any more until you're sure of your ground!    We are in communication with the President of China now.   I have no comment on that.   We have been carrying out the demands of Congress which gave an appropriation of $125 million for aid to China. We spent about $112 million of that and we are now trying to make the balance of it go for the distance in China.   No, no emergency measures--[inaudible]--new Congress and I can say right here that there will be no special session of the "do-nothing" 80th Congress.    I know nothing about it. I haven't been approached on the subject at all.    I said I had no comment.    Yes, it will be in the Message on the State of the Union, and will follow the Democratic platform. It will take in the proposals agreed on in the Democratic platform.    That is a matter for the Congress to pass on. I can't tell you what the Congress--[inaudible]--I am going to suggest to the Congress that they do certain things, and then it's up to Congress and the committees to carry out those recommendations.   All these matters will be in the Message on the State of the Union.    Senator Barkley and I are in complete agreement. I don't think there has ever been a Vice President and a President who understand each other as well as We do.    There are no scales down here, but I think I weigh about 173 or 4, something like that.    I don't know what you would call major decisions. The major decisions will be made in the State of the Union Message, and will be in the Budget Message, and the Economic Message, and--[ inaudible ]--we are working on those.   No action prior to January.    I have given it no consideration.   There will be funds asked for flood control. Florida will be treated like any other State.    No.   They have been pretty well exhausted.    That's a good name for it.
