  I have got a couple of ambassadorial appointments to announce: George V. Allen of Maryland--to Iran; and Edward F. Stanton of California--to Siam.   And then there will be available for you, when you go out, a report by Howard Bruce on surplus property. It is a most interesting report, and gives an outline of the surplus property situation as it is today, with certain recommendations which are being carried out. And that's about all I have to offer.  
 S-t-a-n-t-o-n--Edwin--  Mr. Ross. Edwin, isn't it, Mr. President? E-d-w-i-n.  THE PRESIDENT. E-d-w-i-n F--Stanton. 
 F is his middle initial. He is a career man, yes.
 No. Nobody is under consideration for that. 
 Yes. Resigned on account of his health. Very good man, but he has come home on account of his health--Mr. Murray. 
 That's the first I've heard of that. No, I haven't been considering anybody for the Rome post. Feel satisfied with the man that's there, so far as I know. 
 It's not the George Allen who is a Director of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation!  Yes, that's the one, in the State Department.  
 This conference was requested by the Secretary of the Navy and Admiral Nimitz to discuss unification. 
 Not that I know of. I don't think Admiral Nimitz or the Secretary have been lobbying.  
 No, he has not. I saw, though, where the Republicans had been invited to that--[laughter]--which is a good thing. Somebody down there must have made the same sort of error that they did at the Democratic Committee.  
 No comment. I never make any comment on a bill before it reaches me because I don't know in what form it will come. The Bulwinkle bill is not yet through the Senate.  
 I think it would be a wonderful thing for them to do that--for 2 days a week. 
 They would know, then, exactly what it means to go hungry. Most of us are eating too much. We throw too much away. There is enough wasted every day in this country to feed all the starving peoples for the time that we have to take care of them. 
 Every week--until the famine is over.  
 I am not. The committee decides who the chairman will be, anyway. I am not considering a new one. I like Mr. Hannegan.  
 No. I don't think it finally has come over to me. I have been discussing it, however, with all the people that are interested, but I don't think the final order has yet reached my desk. 
 No,  
 I think Mr. Lehman is very much mistaken. Of course, Mr. Lehman's heart is in this thing, and I am glad it is, because we have got to make every effort possible to feed these people. But if Mr. Lehman made the statement that the administration is not doing everything it can to meet the situation, he is mistaken in that. Mr. Anderson, I think, covered the situation thoroughly.  
 No. Not right at the present time.  
 No, I didn't see that. I didn't know that they were. I don't believe in lobbying by the departments. I believe that these men should go down and express their views to the committee, and let the committee make up its mind on the facts. That was my policy when I was running a committee in the Senate.  
 Not very soon.  
 What does a lobbyist usually do? Whatever a lobbyist usually does, that is what they were doing. They were giving out interviews all over the world. I saw one go out from Hawaii by an admiral in charge over there, and I don't think he knew what he was talking about. And that is really what stirred me up. 
 Melboe, wasn't it?  Was that it--Mel--? Whoever the admiral in charge of the Hawaiian station was.  
 I don't know. 
 I am not running that. That is at the War Department's own discretion. I am not running that. I didn't know anything about it going to Germany. You have given me news. 
 I hadn't heard it. I don't know about it. The best way--best thing is to ask the Secretary of War, I can't tell you.  
 He will go immediately, and the Secretary of State will give him the usual instructions.  
 Yes, that was given my approval. It wouldn't go into effect if it didn't.  
 I can't answer that question, I'm sorry, and I prefer not to comment on that--what the Senators made.  
 I will turn it over for food for the starving people. I'll probably send it to the Secretary of Agriculture. 
 A calf. Somebody said he was going to give me a calf. 
 The Secretary of Agriculture is the head of the food committee. He will take care of it. I don't think he's starving, nor anybody else in this country.  
 I didn't discuss it with him. 
 The best way is to talk to Senator Mead. 
 No, he did not.  
 Yes, I saw it.  No comment to make on it.  
 I would not.  
 I haven't discussed it with either one of them, but I will referee it if it becomes necessary.  
 On what? 
 I prefer not to comment on it. I hope the Senate will pass a draft bill that will work.  
 Well, I will leave that to your own conclusions. If you read it, as I have, you will not.  
 I saw that in the paper. 
 I have no comment to make on it. That is a matter for the Interstate Commerce Commission to handle. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.   THE PRESIDENT. I was going to call your attention to the fact that discharges in the Army have almost reached seven million-as you can see.  The most remarkable demobilization in the history of the world, or "disintegration," if you want to call it that.   
 No. No fishing trip to the Pacific coast. I have been thinking very seriously about going to the Philippines. I hope I can go. 
 That is something that will have to be decided as circumstances develop. I would like very much to go to Japan--China, too. But that depends on how business back here is. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
