  The first announcement is the appointment of John R. Steelman as Special Assistant to the President. 
 John R. S-t-e-e-l-m-a-n. 
 No. Special Assistant. 
 He is going to be a Special Assistant to the President, to act in any field in which I want to use him. 
 Temporary. 
 He will act in any capacity in which I want to use him. 
 He is a labor expert.   I want to make a short statement about the Philippines, and tomorrow morning some letters will be released to you on that subject. 1   1 For letters, see Item 176.   "Since President Osmena's arrival in Washington early this month, I have had several conferences with him, Secretary Ickes, and High Commissioner McNutt.  "All Americans feel a very warm friendship for the Filipino people, who stood by us so heroically throughout the war and who now are in dire need of help. I consider a program of assistance to the Philippines essential to our relationship with the people there.  "We have made some progress and further conferences will be held before President Osmena and High Commissioner McNutt return to Manila."   I have a letter from William Green, Philip Murray, Ira Mosher, and Eric Johnston on the labor-management conference, and also the agenda for the conference, which will be furnished you in mimeographed form. There are copies for everybody. 1   1 The letter , released October 25, was In response to a request by President Truman that the writers nominate delegates and plan the agenda for the National Labor-Management Conference scheduled to begin November 5. The letter stated that 36 delegates had been chosen, representing a wide diversity of interests in both management and labor. The agenda, it stated, was agreed upon unanimously by a subcommittee "chosen by ourselves and the Secretaries of Labor and Commerce." While stating that "no conference can Possibly . . . clean the slate of all present and potential sources of friction in the highly complicated American economy," the writers added that "it is equally obvious . . . that the establishment of long-range and agreed-upon policies designed to reduce industrial disagreement, and the provision of predetermined means of dealing with unavoidable disagreements will go far toward bringing about a new era of industrial harmony and progress."   I am going to speak over the radio at 10 o'clock on Tuesday night, and discuss the wage-price program. 
 Next Tuesday night, at 10 o'clock. 
 All networks. 
 Ten o'clock. 
 The policy is in the stage of being decided. It will be decided before I make the announcement on Tuesday night.   I have a new Presidential flag, Executive order for which will be issued. President Roosevelt had ordered the Navy Department to go to work on a new flag just before he died, and I thought maybe you might be interested in the history of the Presidential flag and the Presidential seal; and I have got a release for you in mimeographed form on that.   Now raise that flag up, there. This flag here--in President Wilson's time there were two flags for the President, an Army flag for the President with a red star and a Navy flag for the President with a blue star.  President Wilson ordered a single flag for the President, and this was the result of that--[General Vaughan displays flag]--with the white eagle facing toward the arrows, which is the sinister side of the heraldic form, and no color.  This new flag--[to General Vaughan]--if you will raise that one up, now you will see--you can see the difference. It will all be explained in the release which you will get. This new flag faces the eagle toward the staff which is looking to the front all the time when you are on the march, and also has him looking at the olive branches for peace, instead of the arrows for war; and taking the 4 stars out of the corner and putting 48 stars around the Presidential seal. You will get a release that will tell you all about it, and the why and the wherefore.  1   1 The release contained the text of Executive Order 9646 "Coat of Arms, Seal, and Flag of the President of the United States" , together with background material reading in part as follows:  The Executive order establishes for the first time a legal definition of the President's coat of arms and his seal. The design of the coat of arms and the seal has been changed slightly from the former design, and the Presidential flag has also been changed. The flag will consist of the coat of arms in full color, surrounded by 48 white stars on a blue field.  The former Presidential flag was adopted in 1916 by President Wilson. Prior to that time, the Army and the Navy had had separate flags for the Commander in Chief. President Wilson instructed his Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the Aide to the Secretary of the Navy, Commander Byron McCandless, USN, to design a Presidential flag which would be suitable for use by both the Army and the Navy. On May 29, 1916, President Wilson signed an Executive order adopting the flag suggested by Assistant Secretary Roosevelt and Commander McCandless. The flag consisted of the Presidential coat of arms on a blue field with a white star in each of the corners. That flag was in use from 1916 until today.  In March of this year, President Roosevelt discussed with his Naval Aide, Vice Admiral Wilson Brown, the advisability of changing the President's flag. It seemed inappropriate to President Roosevelt for the flag of the Commander in Chief to have only four stars when there were five stars In the flags of Fleet Admirals and Generals of the Army, grades which had been created in December 1944.  It was natural that President Roosevelt should turn at this time to the officer who had worked with him in 1916, and who now holds the rank of Commodore, Byron McCandless.  For many years Commodore McCandless, who now commands the U.S. Naval Repair Base at San Diego, Calif., has studied the histories of the various flags of the United States. When Vice Admiral Brown wrote to him, at President Roosevelt's request, late In March for suggestions for a new design for the President's flag, Commodore McCandless prepared several designs based upon early American flags. His proposed designs arrived in Washington after the death of President Roosevelt and the President did not have the opportunity of seeing them until early in June.  The President and members of his staff examined them carefully and, preferring one design to the others, the President made several suggestions to Commodore McCandless concerning it. The President believed that all of the States in the Union should be represented on the Commander in Chief's flag, and he asked Commodore McCandless to submit a new design with a circle of 48 stars around the coat of arms.  Commodore McCandless sent a painting of the proposed flag, with the circle of 48 stars, to the White House in July and when the President returned from Berlin in August, he tentatively approved that design.  It was then sent to the War and Navy Departments for comment and suggestions. The Chief of the Heraldic Section of the Office of the Quartermaster General of the Army, Mr. Arthur E. DuBois, like Commodore McCandless, has studied the history of flags and heraldic emblems for many years. Mr. DuBois made several suggestions to the President. He pointed out that there was no known basis In law for the coat of arms and the seal which has been used by Presidents since 1880 and which was reproduced on the flag. The seal had originated during the administration of President Hayes, apparently as an erroneous rendering of the Great Seal of the United States.  It is a curious fact that the eagle on the Great Seal faces to its own right, whereas the eagle on the seal in use by Presidents since 1880 faces to its own left. According to heraldic custom, the eagle on a coat of arms, unless otherwise specified in the heraldic description, is always made to face to its own right. There is no explanation for the eagle facing to its own left In the case of the President's coat of arms. To conform to heraldic custom, and since there was no authority other than usage for the former Presidential coat of arms, the President had Mr. DuBois redesign the coat of arms in accordance with the latter's suggestions.  In the new coat of arms, seal and flag, the eagle not only faces to its right--the direction of honor--but also toward the olive branches of peace which it holds in its right talon. Formerly the eagle faced toward the arrows in its left talon-arrows, symbolic of  The President also decided that the eagle on his seal and his flag should appear in the full color of the natural bird as is customary in most flags, rather than in white appear as it had been on the former flag.  The 48 stars in the circle represent the States collectively; no single star represents any particular State.  Now I am ready for questions.  
 It is; unless conditions here are such that require my presence here. All Presidential trips are tentative. 
 That is another tentative appointment. They have asked me to come down and get a degree of Doctor of Laws from the great Baptist school down there, and I am inclined to go.  
 John Snyder's resignation has never been under contemplation. John Snyder will stay with me as long as I want him, and until his job is finished. 
 No, sir. He never made any attempt to. 
 He is a patriotic citizen, and he will stay here as long as I need him, although he is doing it at a very great sacrifice.  
 I think General Marshall will add his prestige to that universal training program, but General Marshall is still the Chief of Staff, and I need him as Chief of Staff.  
 Tony, 1  I'll let you make your own book.   1 Ernest B. Vaccaro, Associated Press. 
 Rumors are always circulating in Washington. It wouldn't be a good town if it weren't for the rumors.  
 No, he hasn't. He came here to see the Secretary of Labor.  
 He did not.  
 Yes, and with Senator Magnuson, and with the Secretary of State. 
 Yes, we are making some progress.  
 I haven't made up my mind on the directors for the Export-Import Bank. I have been considering Mr. Crowley for a member of that Board. 
 The letter is around here somewhere, but our conversations were verbal--sitting here in that chair; and the only reason I accepted Mr. Crowley's release was because he insisted on giving it to me, and said that he had been in public service for a long time, and he would like to be in a position to attend to his own business a little while. I didn't urge him in any way. 
 No, there is no reason at all. It can be made public. 1   1 See footnote on page 347.  
 I was relying on my own judgment-- 
--if that's worth anything to you. 
 That's the first I've heard of it. 
 I will make an announcement on that at a later date which will clarify the whole situation. I am not ready to make it now.  
 That is a matter that has been handled by the Secretary of State; and I have not been in touch with him on the subject. 
 Not to me personally, no.  
 I have not.  
 No, I haven't. 
 No, I am not considering anybody at the present time.  
 Yes, I have. I am very anxious for that full employment bill to be reported out and passed. I am for it with everything that I have. 
 I expect to talk to all the people who are on that-who have been invited to the Conference during the week. If he is on that list, he will be talked to. 
 Yes. 
 The program hasn't been made up. I will see him along with the other labor leaders. 
 He said there would be some difficulty about reporting the bill out. He didn't say anything about great amendments, or anything else; but I told him I wanted the bill reported out, to give the House a chance to vote on it.  
 No, he hasn't.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
