  Gentlemen, I have but one announcement to make. I have come to the conclusion that it will be necessary to sign a continuing resolution so that some fifteen thousand Government employees can get paid-- 
 Between 15,000 and 20,000. And I think that there will be no comment on that at the present time. I shall issue a statement at the time the resolution is signed, which will set out my position in the matter.  That's all the announcements I have to make.  
 I don't see any reason for commenting on a confidential conversation.  
 Go right ahead. 
 Yes, I am aware of them. 
 No, I have no comment to make on those recommendations. You see, all those things have been thoroughly and completely gone into time and again by me when we were first asking for the legislation. Several amendments now pending before the Armed Services Committee in which all the--at which time all those things will be thrashed out; and it isn't proper for me to make comment on that now, because the Congress is expecting to act on some amendments to the Unification Act. 
 Yes. Yes, I have. General Spaatz was a member of the Chiefs of Staff when all those matters were discussed, right here in this office.  
 There isn't a word of truth in it. 
 No. 
 Yes, I heard the report but I didn't believe it.  
 There is no special comment that I can make except that I hope that the people of the United States will give the President of Brazil the same cordial welcome that the Brazilians gave me when I was down there; and I am sure they will.  
 Huh?  Why don't you ask Dr. Graham? You should know how he feels, or he wouldn't be in his job.   
 I hadn't heard about it. That's the first I have heard about it.  
 It is a confidential report, just as you named it, and there is no comment on it.  
 I hadn't talked to the labor leaders on that subject, and I therefore can't answer the question. My position has been well set out in the messages to the Congress, and it hasn't changed. 
 No. No, I didn't discuss the phase or any other. I discussed nearly everything else with them.  
 It wasn't pessimistic. Those reports are made to me confidentially once a month, and I get reports from the Federal Reserve Board, I get reports from the Department of Commerce, I get reports from the Department of Labor, I get reports from the Secretary of the Treasury, I get reports from Dun and Bradstreet, and from every other agency which will contribute to an understanding of just what the economic situation is.  There isn't any reason in the world why those reports--confidential reports to should have leaked or should be made public, because it isn't necessary. Twice a year I make public the economic condition of the country in messages which I send to the Congress. That Economic Message is constructed as a result of all the information which is accumulated and put on my desk.  
 In my message to the Congress my position has been very clearly stated.  
 The Secretary of State answered that question very well to you yesterday, 1  and called you by name.   1 For Secretary Acheson's remarks at his news conference on May 11, see the Department of State Bulletin .  The United Nations was about to vote on a resolution relaxing a 1946 resolution against the sending of ambassadors to Spain by permitting each nation to exercise its own judgment in the matter. In announcing that the United States would abstain from voting, Secretary Acheson stated that "the policy of the American Government is one which I am quite sure is calculated to please neither group of extremists in the United States--either those who say that we must embrace Franco, or those who say that we must cast him into the outermost darkness."  
 That message still stands until I send another one on another line to the Congress.  
 I think the best way to find that out would be to ask Mr. Daniels.  
 I am not interested in a purge. The people will take care of that.  
 I hope to be able to announce both in a few days, 2  but I can't--  2 On May 13 Francis P. Matthews was nominated as Secretary of the Navy. He was confirmed by the Senate on May 19 and was sworn in on May 25.  On June 7 Gordon Gray was nominated as Secretary of the Army. He was confirmed by the Senate on June 9 and was sworn in on June 20.  
 On what? 
 I included a statement on reclamation in the message to the Congress.  
 As I said last week, I am happy that it has been lifted--happy that the blockade of Berlin has been lifted. 
 Yes, I do.  
 The rigid economy part we are in complete agreement on, and I exercised the most rigid economy when I sent the budget to the Congress. I always do that, and shall continue to do that. The topic of conversation between Mr. Doughton and myself was the Social Security Act, and we are in agreement on the approach to that. That is what he came to see me about.
 There should be no deficit in Government financing in a country that has got a national income somewhere in the neighborhood of $217 billion. 
 I can't answer intelligently because I haven't the latest figures on it. They are getting them up now. I have to wait until I hear from the Treasury on the income for this last quarter. 
 No, I never did think in terms of $4 billion. 
 Oh. We will work that out when we see what the shortage is likely to be. 
 I can't tell. No, not more than 4 billion. 
 It will undoubtedly be less--much less. 
 That was the estimate at the beginning of the year. As I tell you, I can't give you an intelligent estimate until after the Treasury collects the figures. 
 No, I didn't say that. I said I thought the deficit would be much less than 4 billion. 
 Well, I can't explain it now. It is a very interesting study in psychology, I think. Maybe some of you experts on that subject could go to work and write me an article. 
 I think we ought to retire some $2 to $5 billion on the debt every year. 
 2 to 5 billion; that is, I did when I had the means to do it with. I retired more debt than any other President in the history of the United States. 
 About 26 billion. That was more than the national debt after the First World War. 
 About 26 billion.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
