 Please be seated.  I have no announcements to make. I will listen to questions.  \. It's a little too soon after it.   \. Well, of course, I didn't offer him death. I didn't offer him anything in particular, except to talk about the general political situation--worldwide, national, and Illinois. And he was particularly interested-and what he came to see me about was the mine safety proposition. He is very much interested in mine safety, just as I am. 1  And we had a very pleasant visit all around.  1  See Item 19. \. How could I?  \. I can't answer that question because I don't know. \. Governor Stevenson came to Washington to discuss mine safety. Of course, when any Democratic Governor comes to Washington, he always asks for an interview with the President. That is the way it happened.  \. I don't know.  \. Go right ahead.\. No. I had no hand in it. That is surmise, and it's made by the greatest surmisers in the country. So many of them, you know, who can always tell what is going to happen.  \. The matter has never been discussed with me by anybody.  2  J. E. Taylor, Attorney General of Missouri.  2a  James M. Pendergast, Democratic Party leader in Kansas City, Mo. \. Never been discussed with me by anybody. However, I am very fond of "Buck" Taylor.  \. I have the matter--I attempted to do that last fall. I don't usually back up when I start out to do things.  \. NO, NO. I am not going to send any personal representative. The Senate is going to have to assume the responsibility when the matter's done.  \. Go ahead. \. I will cross that bridge when I come to it. The matter has never been discussed with me. I have an idea that it will be discussed with me at a later date, but I can't make any comment on it now. \. Yes, sure I would.  I have got a perfect right to have an interest in the candidate from Missouri. \. It's quite a long time before those filings close, and I will let you know in plenty of time.  \. Because I am not prepared to make the announcement.  \. Yes, it is.  \. Yes, I know what I am going to do, and when I get around to it, I will tell you about it.  \. That's right. Except in Missouri. \. I will take no hand in any primary outside of the State of Missouri.  \. Well, every good Democrat is a good candidate. It runs in the blood.  \. Now I am not in a position, as President of the United States, to endorse a candidate for President, except the one that I could endorse if I took a notion to endorse.  \. That's right. \. Well, of course, that's different. Of course, I don't have to go into any primary if I become a candidate for President. I will make you a statement on that. You opened the door. That is something that I am very much interested in.  I wish we could have a national presidential primary. Woodrow Wilson tried to get that in 1913 He didn't get anywhere with it. If we had a national presidential primary, that would give everybody who wanted to run for President a chance to get into that primary on a national basis, without having to make all these State campaigns.  \. You are talking about Mr. Kefauver? \. I think he is a nice fellow, and I think he is a good Senator.  \. That is correct. \. I tried to get it ready for today, and we couldn't quite get it ready. Just as soon as it is ready, why it will go down. It will be in a very short time. 4   4  See Item 23. \. I don't understand what you mean by that. My position on the St. Lawrence Seaway has been the same since 1935, and it hasn't changed. And it won't change. But we must have the St. Lawrence Seaway. If we don't want to be a partner in it, I am sure that the Canadian Government itself will build it.  \. Well, I always like to see a good Senator in the Senate. I hope we can get one from Missouri to go along with the good Senator that we have there now. \. Hennings. 6   5  Senator James P. Kem of Missouri.  6  Senator Thomas C. Hennings, Jr., of Missouri.  \. I didn't say that. The President has the same right as any other citizen.  \. I haven't seen the Senator's statement, and I don't know what is in it on second hand, and I have no comment to make on it.  \. I can't give you any date. \. I can't answer that question. \. Yes, I do. The door is always open on politics. It's the--the great American game. I think it beats football, baseball, and basketball and everything else. I like politics. And I have been in it--come January 2, 1953, I will have been in elective office 30 years. And I never was elected to an office I wanted, except in 1948.  \. I'm not tired. \. I said I'm not tired.  7 Democratic national committeeman for Missouri. \. I am in favor of a candidate on the Democratic ticket that can be elected. As I told you the last time we discussed this subject, it would be a terrible thing for the Republicans to get control of this Government at this time. \. No. Not at the present time. \. I probably will. \. He wanted to know if I would announce my intentions before the last day for filing in Missouri. \. I don't know. \. I don't know. They have changed it since I was running for the Senate before. I could tell you when I was in the Senate, but I don't know now.  \. Yes, I had a most pleasant talk with the Prime Minister of The Netherlands, one I think that was satisfactory to both him and me. \. We talked about everything and how it affects the Atlantic Treaty, particularly the interests of The Netherlands in the matter.  \. He will report to me, and he will also report to Mr. Harriman. That doesn't prevent him from reporting to Mr. Harriman.  9 W. Averell Harriman, Director for Mutual Security.  \. Yes, it was. s Prime Minister Willem Drees of The Netherlands. \. There were a great many other projects in the same condition that were left out.  \. He is going to be a consultant to the State Department.  0  10 On January 23 the White House had made public the text of the President's letter accepting the resignation of Mr. Webb as Under Secretary of State.  \. That is a matter that you will have to ask the Secretary of State. I think he answered it, I am not sure.  \. Well, I will tell you what they told me.  They endorsed the program which I have sent to the House and the Senate. The bills are pending in both Houses, and that group was unanimously in favor of what those bills provide.  \. No, I haven't seen it.  11 Millard Caldwell, Administrator, Federal Civil Defense Administration.  \. No, except in the ordinary reports that I receive from him all the time. They did not refer to politics.  \. That's right. \. It does, but I don't care to comment on it.   \. The discussion between Paul fitzpatrick and myself had to do with the political situation in the State of New York. The only candidate that was discussed was discussed by Paul when he came out and talked to you fellows.  13  Chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee.  \. I have told them just exactly what I have told you ladies and gentlemen. They draw their own conclusions, just like you do.  \. Well, anybody who sits at the President's desk over a period of time feels sometimes like he would very much like to leave it, on account of the fact that it is the most strenuous job in the world. It carries more responsibility than any other job in the world, and it is a difficult one to fill creditably. I have never told anybody that I expected to leave it, or that I expected to stay there. \. I don't think so. I would rather not start that precedent because you will be wanting to quote the whole interview.  \. No.  I came from there. \. It's not the first one that came there. I remember one back there in 1920. \. Say that again? \. Well, there are going to be a great many candidates, and I don't want to play any favorites. I want them all to have a fair chance.   Merriman Smith, United Press Associations: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome, Smitty. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninetyfirst news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4:05 p.m. on Thursday, January 24, 1952. 
