  I have just signed the OPA bill, and I am sending a message to Congress which will reach there this evening. I will have that message ready for distribution within the next hour.   And I am going to announce the three members of the Decontrol Board within a day or two.  I am appointing Jesus T. Pinero as Governor of Puerto Rico. He is now Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico.  And, I am appointing Dr. George W. Taylor to succeed O. Max Gardner as Chairman of the Advisory Board for the Office of War Mobilization.  And, I am appointing Dr. John Davidson Clark, and Leon Keyserling, to the Council of Economic Advisers created by the Employment Act of 1946. The third member will be announced in a few days.   How's that?   The full employment board--Council of Economic Advisers is the proper title--created by the Employment Act of 1946.   No. I haven't announced--I am not ready to announce the chairman as yet.   Leon Keyserling--K-e-y-s-e-r-l-i-n-g--Leon H. is his name.   I have just signed an Executive order transferring the functions of the Office of Economic Stabilization to the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion. And Mr.--Dr. Steelman will act as Stabilization Director for the time being. Now I am ready for questions.   Well, you'll have to ask him. I don't know.    I think it's a good idea. I was expecting to see Mr. Byrnes off myself, as usual.   At the airport.  Around noon, I think. It hasn't been officially announced as yet, but it's going to be around noon, I'm sure.   Saturday, yes.    Yes.   I am sending a message to Congress, a copy of which you will have, which will set out all the answers to any questions that you have to ask on that.   That's all right.   Yes, surely. It will be 2 hours before the message is ready. It will explain everything when you get it.    I will attend to that when it gets up here. I haven't seen the tidelands bill yet. I have been reading the record of the debates in the House and Senate. I haven't seen the bill.  I will answer that when the tidelands bill comes to me.    Yes. I forgot that.   That is--I had so many things a while ago that some of my papers got lost. I will tell you who the new Budget Director is going to be, if I can find the papers down in here. James E. Webb, of Oxford, N.C.   Oxford, N.C.   Yes, I have the whole thing here, but I will have it mimeographed and give it to you. It will be better to do that than give it to you. It's rather long.    I have no intention of making any speeches in Missouri while I am out there.    I have it under consideration.   Don't call it anything. I simply have it under consideration.    I haven't seen it. I don't know what it purports to--   I will attend to that when it gets up here. I haven't seen the bill. Until I have had a chance to analyze what it provides, I cannot discuss it.    Well, I am sorry to see that things like that have to happen. We tried our best to prevent that thing from happening while the war was going on.  1 The question referred to the inquiry by the Senate Special Committee To Investigate the National Defense Program concerning certain war contracts and other activities in which Dr. Henry M. Garsson and his brother Murray W. Garsson were concerned.    No, I will not.   It's--it's a nonpacked jury.    That's right.    I have no comment to make on that. I am still behind the American plan.    Shoot.   I don't want to make any comment on that, because the Committee is in London now working on that very thing. They will probably make a report to me very shortly on the subject, then I will announce it.   They report to me every day, but the final conclusion has not been reached.    I hadn't given it any thought.   I haven't received it.    That is correct.   I haven't been requested to act.    Why certainly.   Certainly. I sent a message to Congress on that some time back, which I would advise you to read. It covers the situation thoroughly.    I have made up my mind on two of the members, and I am trying to get a third one to accept. Just as soon as I have that acceptance I will give you the members of the Board.    I have made that request already.   It hasn't gone yet. It will go in today.   No, I would rather not. Let the appropriations committee--it will require additional funds, of course.    Yes. Yes, I signed that bill.    I have made at least a half dozen requests on that. If it is necessary to make another one, I will make it. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
