 Please be seated.  I have no special announcements to make. I will try to answer questions, if I can.    No, I haven't. No, I haven't.  1  Administrator, Federal Security Agency.   No sir, I can't.   Well, sir, that has been a question ever since Adam and Eve, and I guess it always will be.    Tony  2  wants to ask me a question.  2 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.    Well, we will have to have judges out there sometime, but it will take some deliberation to find good ones, I fear. What was your question now ?  3 See Item 165 .    You put a "cracker" on your question. If I told Jim Forrestal that, I certainly must have had the letter. I haven't had a chance to look it up, but I think it was a letter of congratulations on being elected as President, just as I had bushels of them at the time.  4  "The Forrestal Diaries," edited by Walter Millis with collaboration of E. S. Dufiield, New York, Viking Press, 1951.    We are working on that situation now.    I do not recall what was in the letter. I will look it up and read it, and I will tell you what he said.    No, I do not.  5 The nomination of Earl W. Beck of Kansas City, Mo., to be Recorder of Deeds for the District of Columbia was sent to the Senate on September 26, 1951.   No, they have further consideration to give it.    No comment. I am sorry they did it, is about all I could say.    Yes, I have looked into it, and they are treating all the soldiers exactly alike. They have arranged to meet the Korean situation just like they have in other places, and the markers are being placed as fast as they can be obtained. 6  6 See Item 247 .    My recollection is rather hazy on that. They said that I did once.  7  James P. Finnegan, former collector, first district of Missouri, Bureau of Internal Revenue.   No, I will not. That is an educational meeting.  8  Governor James F. Byrnes of South Carolina.    Yes. They are straightening everything out. I think you will find, if you will inquire down in the Department of Defense, that everything has been worked out to the satisfaction of everybody.    No comment.   I did not approve of them--do not approve of them and never have. What was the question over here ?    I will take that under consideration when the time comes. 9  9 See Item 283.    I don't think they should have, and never have thought so. I am still of that same opinion.   Well, you will find that the vast majority of them do not have. Those that get in trouble are those that have.   We will have to look at that. I don't believe that Government employees should have any extracurricular activities at all. I never have thought so, but they are making it so difficult to get good men in public service that I don't know whether that is the right thing to do or not. We will have to look into it. I have expressed my opinion on it.   You ought to know.   You ought to know. If you can't answer that question, you don't know what is going on.   Are you out of "soap" today, or what?  Yes. Yes. When I am ready to announce it, I will let you know.  10 The nomination of Frank A. Waring as a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority was sent to the Senate on August 1951, and withdrawn October 1, 1951.    I will take that under consideration.    Not ready yet. As soon as I am ready, why I will let you know.    I haven't given it any consideration, and I can't comment on it.    He just came in to pay his respects. He and I were good friends in the Senate, and he was in town and he just wanted to see me. We discussed old times, principally.  11 Former Senator Arthur Thomas  Stewart of Tennessee.    Well, I am not so sure of that. I am not so sure of that.   Because sometimes it is very difficult to handle civil service employees when they get in places of responsibility. There are so many regulations, it would be exceedingly difficult to fire one when he went wrong. And I like to retain the idea that when a man is not right, he can be immediately fired.   Well, I think they are wrong about that. They have been fired every time one of them has been found to be wrong.   Q, Mr. President, on the Illinois judges, do you intend to withdraw the nominations of the persons you sent up to the Senate ?   I understand the Senate rejected them. There is nothing--no further action is necessary.   You see, the Senate, having rejected them, that finishes it.   Nothing more to do about those two judges.   It hadn't been brought to the floor.  If you remember a bit of history, Andrew Jackson appointed Martin Van Buren Ambassador to Great Britain. He was 3 months in London and then was rejected by the Senate. It didn't injure his reputation, for he afterwards became President of the United States.     I knew nothing about it. I knew nothing about it whatever. All I know is what I see in the papers.    I have no comment on that question.    I think that Secretary Acheson answered that completely and thoroughly yesterday in the statement. 12  12 On October 10 Secretary of State Dean Acheson commented on the testimony given by Harold E. Stassen on October 1 before the Subcommittee on Internal Security of the Senate Judiciary Committee .  Secretary Acheson denied Mr. Stassen's allegations that withdrawal of aid to Nationalist China had been proposed as a "dramatic peace move" at a White House conference in October 1949. The text of Secretary Acheson's statement is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .    I haven't seen the letter. I understand they left a letter, but they didn't talk to me about it.  13 Carl R. Gray, Jr., Administrator of Veterans Affairs.   Well, you know how I am about the people I put in places, and I am rather contrary about having other people tell me what to do with them.     I don't know. I don't know, and I don't like to refer to that as a library of mine. It is an archives building that will belong to the United States Government, and that will contain the official papers and gifts that have been received by the President from all over the world for public use. And the land and everything will be deeded to the United States Government just as it was at Hyde Park, and there is a law authorizing such a procedure. But there is no law authorizing appropriations for its construction, and I understand that there has been an effort made to raise the funds for the construction of the building, which will then become the property of the Government of the United States.   I don't want any memorial to me! We are talking about the proposed building which will contain the archives of my administration. That is what it is, Eddie. 14  14 Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post.  Mr. Folliard: I don't want any memorial either, Mr. President.   I know you don't, Eddie.    Secretary Short said just what I authorized him to say. 15    15  At a press conference on October 10, Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President, stated that the President favored the establishment of an archives or library to house his papers but opposed letters requesting contributions for the project. Such a letter had been sent out over the signature of Senator Clinton P. Anderson of New Mexico. The name of George E. Allen appeared on the letterhead.   Yes, I do.   No, I didn't know.   Mr. Short answered that. Mr. Short answered that. I didn't know anything about that procedure.   No, I have not. I have no method at all. All I hope is that there will be a place where these papers can be stored without being scattered all over the country.  You know, the papers of nearly all the Presidents have been misplaced, and it has been very difficult to get the facts of their administrative acts. And this new archives building bill which I asked the Congress to pass is proposing to take care of that situation, not only for the President, but for all the top administrators of every administration. And then the historians will have access to the papers whenever they want to see them, and they will be all put in one place.   Yes, I think because it gives access to people who would not otherwise have the opportunity to see what they contain. It will be under the control of Archives. The Archives Building is fast becoming too small to hold what we have there now.   I don't agree with that.   No, I don't agree. And I think President Roosevelt was right in what he did.    No indeed. No indeed. General Eisenhower came to see me and asked me to appoint General Bradley. And I never asked General Eisenhower to quit at all. Whenever I have been able to use him, I have always used him ever since.   I never had any such conversation that I recollect. I feel--I am sure I didn't say that, because I am very fond of Eisenhower. He was an excellent Chief of Staff, and General Bradley was, too, and so was General Marshall. I haven't had a bad one.    Oh, yes. It will contain everything. I have got a stack of files over there that is larger than any other President ever had, and it will fill two rooms like this.   I suppose that Mr. Allen will. I didn't know that Anderson had any connection with it.   I know he did, but I say that is the first I knew about it. They are excellent and very dear friends, but sometimes your friends get overzealous.   I said those two gentlemen are very good friends of mine, and sometimes your good friends get overzealous without any intention of doing any harm, and I am sure that is what happened in this case.  You're welcome.
