  Please sit down. I had a very satisfactory telephone call this morning. The 15 nonoperating unions, representing a million workers, reached an agreement at the bargaining table.  I congratulate them, and I congratulate the carriers also, for having reached that agreement. And that agreement was reached without any threats of strikes, or any strike, and I think everybody is happy over it. 1   Now I am ready for questions.  1 For an earlier statement on the railroad situation, see Item 33 .  \. I received a telephone call from Mr. Steelman 2  about this settlement I am telling you about. I had no telephone call from the Labor Policy Committee. I am not expecting one.  2  Dr. John R. Steelman, The Assistant to the President. \. No, I do not. I didn't know about that.  3  Charles E. Wilson, Director, Office of Defense Mobilization. On February 28 the United Labor Policy Committee had withdrawn union representatives from all mobilization agencies. \. I said I didn't know about that statement he just made. \. No comment. \. No comment. \. Not at all--so you can pack your grips and get ready to go on Friday. \. He happened to be at the White House for a conference and I brought him over.  4  Secretary of Labor Maurice J. Tobin. \. No comment. No comment. When I take the action, you will all know about it.  \. You never are, May, 5  but go ahead.   5  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. No-- \. --no.  \. No comment.  6 "Study of Reconstruction Finance Corporation: Favoritism and Influence," interim report of the Committee on Banking and Currency, February 5, 1951 .  \. I had a very pleasant conference with General Romulo and the Ambassador. And the general informed me that, as soon as he has finished his work in the United Nations, he was going to the Philippines and going to try to help implement the Bell report. 8   7 Gen. Carlos P. Romulo, Foreign Secretary of the Philippines and Philippine Delegate to the United Nations, and His Excellency Joaquin M. Elizalde, Philippine Ambassador to the United States.  8 "Report to the President of the United States by the Economic Survey Mission to the Philippines" .  \. Well, my only comment on that is--is that the situation is one of collective bargaining, and the President ought not to interfere with collective bargaining.  9  The Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad.  \. Of course I haven't, because I don't know about it yet. Maybe it will come to me during the day.  \. No, I haven't.  10  "Second Interim Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Organized Crime in Interstate Commerce" . Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee was chairman of the committee.  \. Between the railroad operators and the unions, that's all. \. That's right. \. Not at all--not at all. The only reason they ever came to the White House was at their own request. I didn't ask them there.  \. I have no comment. \. No comment. You might just as well quit. You had better ask questions about something I can answer.   \. No comment.  11  Donald S. Dawson, Administrative Assistant to the President, formerly personnel director of the RFC. \. Oh, yes. I have read a lot of them.  12  See Item 33 . \. No, sir--and I won't. \. No comment. I hate to treat you this way. I would like to give you a lot of headlines.   13 Mrs. E. Merl Young, a secretarial assistant in the office of the personal secretary to the President.  \. Not that I know of. He hasn't said so to me.  14 Earlier in the day, the White House had released an exchange of correspondence between the President and Robert J. Smith in which the President accepted Mr. Smith's resignation as Vice Chairman of the National Security Resources Board, to become effective on March 15, 1951. W. Stuart Symington was Chairman of the Board. On April 17, Mr. Symington was appointed Administrator of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation .  \. Well, sir, I think I commented on that, through Mr. Short, that the amendment did not affect President Truman. And that's all the comment I have to make.  \. He certainly has.  \. No, I can't comment on that at the present time. \. No, I don't.  \. All right, go ahead. What is this, foreign relations?  \. He's an expert on foreign relations. \. No, it did not. \. Well, let me tell you something. Sometime back, I declared a national emergency, and that national emergency affects every segment of the economy. And the program that we are trying to implement is one that will not ruin the most prosperous Nation in the world, but will be worked out in such a manner that that prosperity can continue. And if that prosperity can continue, it affects labor, farmers, industry, white-collar people, and everybody in the Nation.  \. Sure, go ahead. \. Well now, I would advise you to read the history of 1941--December 7. I think that will answer your question. \. No, I cannot, because Iam not faced with any such condition. \. Sure. \. That is correct. \. Oh, no. I don't mind their talking about anything they want to. This is a free country. They can make any number of speeches they want, on any subject they want to, but that does not mean that it helps the relations with the rest of the world. \. No, I didn't say that. \. I know what you are trying to get, you are trying to get a concrete answer from me, and you are not going to get it.   \. No, I have no comment on that.  15 On February 27, 1951, a White House release announced that John Foster Dulles had given the President an oral report of the activities of the Japanese Peace Mission in Japan, the Philippines, Australia, and New Zealand. Mr. Dulles reported that exploratory conversations with leaders of these countries had promoted closer agreement as to a peace settlement. The release further stated that the President expressed his gratification and asked the Mission to continue its work.  \. No, I have no comment. I think they speak for themselves.  16 The Subcommittee on Privileges and Elections of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration was holding hearings on the Maryland senatorial election of 1950, in which John Marshall Butler defeated the incumbent Millard E. Tydings.  \. No. I think Mr. Johnston wrote that letter in an endeavor to get things straightened out. And I think he made a sincere effort to get it done.  17 Eric A. Johnston, Administrator, Economic Stabilization Agency. \. I will tell you about that in a couple of weeks, Smitty. 18   18  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. \. I don't think there is any necessity for my commenting on that. \. Oh, no. Just a disagreement. \. No. You will be down in Key West, Smitty. I will talk to you then.  \. Of course I do.  19  Michael V. DiSalle, Director of Price Stabilization. \. Well, read the report of the Department of Agriculture which just came out. That will help you.  \. It might be 1 week, it might be 2 weeks, it might be 3 weeks--3 months. You can't tell. You had better wait and see how developments come out. \. He wanted to know whether my "couple of weeks" statement meant any specific time. I was just trying to say it did not. \. I never sit on any problem.   \. I won't go along on any statement that I don't make myself. \. No. I would not. \. Tony 20  says we ought to give up. No, I have no further comments, Smitty.  20 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. \. I will answer any questions you have got on your mind!  Note: President Truman's two hundred and fifty-sixth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, March 1, 1951. 
