 Please be seated.   I have one announcement here to make, and that is that I just sent down the name of Governor Ellis Arnall  1  to be Price Administrator, in place of Mike DiSalle. 2   1  Former Governor of Georgia.  2  See also Item 34. \. Yes, it has gone. \. I am releasing it right now. This is the first that has been said about it in the normal line.  \. Yes, I have. I have given it a lot of thought. \. Yes, there are. Usually a number of candidates for a job like that. \. I haven't looked into the politics of the people under consideration-I don't know--probably I am.  What's the matter, Smitty? 3   3 Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations.  \. Yes, that is an administrative matter which is in Carl Gray's office. I don't know anything about it.  4 Dr. E. H. Cushing, Assistant Chief Medical Director for Research and Education Service in the Veterans Administration, had just resigned.  5 Carl R. Gray, Jr., Administrator of Veterans' Affairs.  \. We sincerely hope so. I can't promise it. I had a bunch of reporters over there yesterday explaining the situation to them. I think we had a very nice time. I did. We are hoping for the best. I would like very much to have it finished.  6 See Items 73, 74, 78.  \. Bill Hillman came to see me and told me what he had in mind. And it appeared to me to be all right. I have been answering some questions for him and helping a little bit, but you will have to wait until the book comes out. I can't tell you a thing that's in it. I want you to buy one.   7 William Hillman, "Mr. President" . \. I Can't answer that.  \. I could do that, you know, if I wanted to. Three very distinguished Senators were in to see me yesterday on that subject--the Senator from South Carolina, Mr. Maybank, the Senator from Arkansas, Mr. Fulbright, and the Senator from Indiana, Mr. Capehart. And we had a very nice conversation on the subject. And that Senate committee informed me that due to the fact that a House committee is investigating the Securities and Exchange Commission, they could not act on Mr. McDonald's appointment. 8   8 Harry A. McDonald served as Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission until February 26, at which time he took the oath as Administrator of the Reconstruction finance Corporation. He had received the confirmation of the United States Senate on February 25.  Now, that is the first time in my long connection with the Senate that I have ever known a Senate committee to let a House committee tell them what they ought to do. \. I have not had that under consideration. I am anxious to have Mr. McDonald confirmed, and until Mr. McDonald is confirmed the RFC will run--you needn't worry about it--I will take care of that.  9 Peter I. Bukowski, former Deputy Administrator of the Reconstruction finance Corporation. \. NO. Mr. Symington is going to Jamaica for a vacation.  10 W. Stuart Symington's resignation from the post of Administrator of the Reconstruction finance Corporation became effective on February 15.  \. I don't know anything about General Eisenhower's statement because I didn't see it. And I have never been very fond of Spain.  \. That is my answer. I gave it to you. \. I can't answer that. Whenever I am ready \. --whenever I am ready to announce that, I will let you know in plenty of time. You won't get scooped, because I won't just hand it to one fellow.   \. The budget has been submitted and will stay just as it is. They must do a little work on that budget, and that's what hurts them. What is it?  \. If Senator Russell is the head of the Democratic ticket this fall, of course I'll vote for him. \. You mustn't put me on the spot.   \. No. \. NO. \. NO. \. Just let the river take its course. \. It originated in my campaign in 1934.  11 Former leader of the Democratic Party in Kansas City, Mo. \. Generally. \. That covers the whole front--the whole waterfront. \. Yes, but I sometimes put a few walls and sometimes put a dam across the river, too.  \. And sometimes put a dam across the river and change its course. That has been done on several occasions. I can remember at least four campaigns that I have had to do that, and it has been a rather successful procedure up to date. \. No. It keeps them from running, if it's in a fellow's way.  \. I recommended that, but that won't cause any river in the United States to run our way. That is out in the ocean.  12 Passamaquoddy tidal power project in Maine. \. Well, that would be a fine thing, I think, to inspect it.  \. Well now, I will tell you this, just so you will have a clear understanding of the situation. I shall do everything I possibly can to help elect the Democratic nominee no matter who he is; and if I am invited to come to any special meetings in Connecticut, I will be glad to do what I can to help elect Senator Benton. I think he is a good Senator.  13 Senator William Benton of Connecticut.  \. It might. It doesn't, however.   \. I haven't seen the bill. It hasn't come to me for action. I can't tell you about it until I know what is in it, and as soon as I have it where I can, I will let you know exactly what I think about it.  \. NO comment. You know I told you last week that I thought we had discussed that long enough, and sometime or other I am going to make you an announcement that will clear the air. \. No, I don't want to make it today. \. What's that? I didn't understand. \. The vote in New Hampshire wouldn't have anything to do with my decision.  \. The matter that caused that request is an administrative matter--\. --in Carl Gray's office, and he is handling it, and I know nothing about it. People don't usually get anywhere, asking me to fire people.  \. How much more aggressive does a man have to be when he fires those who go wrong and has some of them prosecuted ?  14  Senator John J. Williams of Delaware.  What he would like to do is have them all fired so he could get some Republicans in there, I guess.  He isn't going to get that done. \. They have all been named, and some of them are indicted right now.  15 John W. Snyder, Secretary of the Treasury. \. One of them has been tried and got a sentence. \. NO, I don't. Not any more to blame than you are. These things happen. These things happen all the time--in banks and in businesses. Well, look at this grain that has been stolen by these grain fellows. Secretary Brannan 16  didn't have anything to do with that any more than John Snyder had to do with the crookedness in the Internal Revenue Department. That is just a piece of foolishness in politics, that's all it is. Whatever action is necessary we will take to clean those things up.  16  Charles F. Brannan, Secretary of Agriculture.  \. No, I did not. \. No. The Commodity Credit Corporation is set up by the Congress, and I signed the bill just like I do for the Securities and Exchange Commission and Reconstruction finance Corporation, and things of that kind. I had nothing under consideration for its reorganization.  \. The Secretary of State.  \. No. Nothing to add to it at all.  17 Theron Lamar Caudle, former Assistant Attorney General, Tax Division. \. That is true. I had--\. I don't remember. I can't remember how far back, but I had a report on him which I was having investigated. I don't make snap judgments on these things at all. As soon as I got the evidence, I let him go. \. No, I can't. Can't remember. The report is in my file somewhere. I am not going to let you see it. \. That's what I thought.   \. That's right. That's right. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninety-third news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4:05 p.m. on Thursday, February 7, 1952. 
