 I have a couple of announcements to make to you.   I am going to appoint the Honorable James Forrestal, the Secretary of the Navy; the Honorable Arthur S. Flemming, Civil Service Commissioner; the Honorable Dean Acheson of Washington, D.C.; and the Honorable George H. Mead, Dayton, Ohio, on the Commission on the Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government. There will be a mimeographed copy of the letter which went to each one of them for you when you go out.   Now I am reappointing the three members presently on the National Labor Relations Board, Mr. Paul Herzog whose term expires in 1950, Mr. John Houston whose term expires in 1948, Mr. James Reynolds whose term expires in 1951, and J. Copeland Gray, Buffalo, N.Y., for a term of 2 years, Abe Murdock of Utah for a term of 5 years; and I am nominating as General Counsel, Mr. Robert N. Denham of Maryland for a term of 4 years.   D-e-n-h-a-m.  I am designating Paul Herzog as Chairman of the new Board. We will have autographs -- autobiography -- a biography of each one of them when you go out.   Yes.   The Counsel is Denham.   He lives in Maryland.   One at a time, please.    Well, I don't know. I suppose it will. I suppose it will. Gray is a Republican. Murdock is a Democrat. And Denham's a Republican, if that will be of any help to you.   Oh, you are helping them out?    I think it was.    No, not yet. I will announce that.    He is the General Counsel for the Board. A Maryland Republican.   He has been one of the assistant counselors to the Board.  Mr. Ross: The background is fully given on that.   YOU will have the background when you get outside.    It hadn't.   NO, I can't.   I couldn't answer you then because his name hadn't been presented to me at that time. It was presented and I thought he filled the bill, so I appointed him.    They certainly are. They have to be.   They have to be.    I don't think so. I have no engagements from now until next Christmas that I know of.     I haven't discussed the matter with Dr. Steelman.   I imagine that's what the conference was about yesterday, but I haven't discussed the matter with Dr. Steelman or anybody else.    Yes, it is being studied.   I can give you nothing in regard to it, because that is a part of the economic survey which is being made for the country now.   That is a part of the economic survey being made--being made now for the country.   No--no, no. This is the one that has to do with implementation of the Marshall plan.    I think the best thing for you to do is to wait and read the veto message which will be out soon. You only have about 9 hours to wait.     NO, no, we have appointed a large commission to make a survey of the resources of the United States. That will take in oil and everything else.    I can't answer that for you. I don't know anything about what the interpretations are.    I haven't seen the letter and it wouldn't affect the message.    I just now heard about it, but I haven't been officially notified as yet. But I will be fined. I will wait and see what happens. I don't expect to grow a beard.   1  The White House Official Reporter noted that prior to the opening of the news conference Earl Godwin of the American Broadcasting Company told the President of an Associated Press item which stated that the President was going to be fined $3.25 for not growing a beard for the celebration marking the 125th anniversary of the opening of the Santa Fe Trail.    Sure.   I imagine that they will follow the usual procedure of the Railway Labor Act.    Not that I know of.   I haven't heard it.    Well now, the Economic Report is just like the veto message. It will speak for itself. You will have it this Saturday, so you will have plenty of time to study it for Monday. That will answer your question.    Did it have a cool reception? I didn't know that.   Oh, that's to be expected. He criticizes everything.  I don't think that's a barometer as to What the Congress may do.   Of course I am. That's the reason I asked for it. I am sending down the budget on the subject immediately.   In fact they have it, I think, now.   I think it went today. I am sure I signed the request today.    That's right.   Well now, I will have to decide that when the bill comes before me.    I don't think so.   Well, I will answer that when the appointments are made.    I have no comment on that. I will take care of that when it comes up. The bill hasn't even been passed yet. When it comes to me, I will let you know just as soon as I have made up my mind.    I can't answer that, Smitty. 1  I have been contemplating a trip to Brazil, but no arrangements have been made for the trip, and I don't know what the situation will be. When I get ready to go to Brazil, I will let you know in plenty of time so you can get ready, Smitty.   1  Merriman Smith of the United Press.    I have always held that it should be in the Labor Department. My position hasn't changed on that at all.    I have no comment on that because I don't know what's going to happen. I will answer that at a later date.   You're welcome.
