 I have no special announcements to make this morning, but I will try to answer your questions if I can.  
 The matter is under study. 
 It is under study, yes. 1  1 Myron C. Taylor was appointed as the President's Personal Representative at the Vatican on December 23, 1939; his resignation became effective on January 18, 1950. His letter of resignation and the President's reply, both dated January 18 and released by the White House on the same date, are published in the Department of State Bulletin .  On October 20, 1951, the President appointed Gen. Mark W. Clark to be the first U.S. Ambassador to Vatican City. According to reports in the press the White House reaffirmed the power of the President to establish diplomatic relations with the Vatican without consulting Congress but announced that the President would request congressional approval of the nomination.  After widespread controversy on the appointment and protests from numerous Protestant groups, General Clark withdrew as the nominee on January 13, 1952. A U.S. Ambassador to Vatican City was not appointed during the Truman administration. 
 The matter is under study. The State Department is studying it. I think Dean Acheson answered that yesterday. 2     2 On January 18, 1950, Secretary Dean Acheson sent a telegram to the American Embassy in Rome concerning the office of the President's Personal Representative at the Vatican. The text of the telegram was not released  
 As quickly as it is ready. It will go up in a few days. We have been working very hard on it. No controversy. It is a technical matter. Takes a little time to get it ready.  3 See Item 18.  
 On what? 
 Oh yes, he was killed in an airplane accident. Yes, we will fill that as promptly as we can. 4    4 On February 28, 1950, the President transmitted to the Senate the nomination of Myron Wiener as a member of the War Claims Commission. The appointment filled the vacancy created by the death of David N. Lewis on November 29, 1949, when he was killed in the crash of an airliner in Dallas, Tex.  
 Not that I know of. I haven't had any conversation with him on the subject. All I know about what has happened is what I saw in the paper.  
 No. 
 No, he has not.  
 We have received no formal communication from the Lawyers Guild. 
 We have received no formal communication. I have heard lots of rumors on the subject. 
 No, I have no comment. 
 They wanted to know if the Lawyers Guild was going to ask me to investigate the FBI, and I told him I hadn't heard it officially.  
 The proposed change in the rules of the House. He came up to talk to me about it at my suggestion. 5    5 Representative Adolph J. Sabath of Illinois, Chairman of the House Rules Committee. The proposed change in the rules had to do with an attempt to restore the power of the Committee to pigeonhole bills. Under the rule in effect since January 3, 1949, any bill held up by the Rules Committee for 21 days could be brought to the floor at the call of the chairman of the committee of original jurisdiction--provided the Speaker recognized him for such a call. On January 20 the House voted 236-183 to retain the 21-day rule. 
 Of course I am against it. I hope they won't do it. 
 I don't know what that change is. I didn't discuss that with him. I told him I was opposed to the change. Period. 
 He thought he could beat it. That is the change. 
 Yes, I have--yes, I have. I have talked to Speaker Rayburn every Monday on the subject for the last year and a half, and the year before that, also. 
 Yes, we discussed it. 
 I thought the Alien Property Custodian business was wound up. Which is it? Maybe I'm mistaken--I was thinking about surplus property. That is about to wind up.  
 I made a statement last week in which I said that I was for Allison, 6  and I think you will find the Missouri politicians generally in agreement with that.  6 See Item 3 . 
 Yes. 
 I can't answer that question. You see, Missouri has a free primary, and anybody in the world can run that wants to. There is nothing to prevent them-nothing to prevent them trying it. I am just answering your question.  
 I am not in the Indiana senatorial primary. I am only in the Missouri primary. 
 After the primary is over in Indiana I hope to help elect a Democratic Senator from Indiana.  
 Now, what do you mean by that question?  Are you a lawyer? What do you mean by that question? I think it means the same thing.  
 We will cross that bridge when we get to it. Of course, I want Senator Lucas to come back now, and I will do everything I can to help him come back. If it requires that, I will do it.  
 Yes. 
 That is correct. 
 No. He was in communication with me. I had no communication whatever. He told us what he was going to do, and we listened.  
 No, I have not. I will announce it whenever I am ready.  8 The resignation of Davil E. Lilienthal as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission became effective on February 15, 1950. On February 16, 1950, the President designated Sumner T. Pike as Acting Chairman of the Commission, and on July 11, 1950, Mr. Truman appointed Gordon E. Dean to be Chairman of the Commission.  
 No, I can't comment further on that. I have said all that is necessary. What is it somebody wants to ask me?  
 I am in constant touch with the situation in the coal industry. When the situation develops to the point where it is necessary for me to take action, I will take it.  
 I cannot comment on that. 9    9  See Item 16.  
 I will take no part in any primary race outside the State of Missouri. That is my State, where I have the right to do as I please. The other States have a right to do as they please. After the primaries are over, then I will be in a different frame of mind.  
 The decision is in the hands of the President, and when the President thinks there is an emergency, he will declare it and take whatever action is necessary. 
 The emergency is not here. The national emergency is not here. 
 Your guess is as good as mine. I get constant reports on the situation. When I think there is an emergency, I will make a statement on it, and I think you will understand it clearly. 
 I don't care to answer that question. You will have to dig that up for yourself. 
 Mr. Denham is working for the National Labor Relations Board, and it is not my business to bless him or unbless him.  
 None that I know of. None that I know of--no connection. Mr. Denham was requested to take any action ever since the 31st of December, and he has generally decided to take it. 
 No, no. Has nothing to do with a national emergency.  
 There will be none.  11 Maj. Gen. Harry H. Vaughn, Military Aide to the President.  The report of the Investigations Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments, entitled "The 5-Percenter Investigation," was submitted to the Senate on January 18, 1950. It is published in Senate Report 1232 .  The report dealt with the problem of "management consultants," influence peddlers who sought to convince the small businessman that their services were needed in order to obtain Government contracts.  
 I have seen them in the paper, but nowhere else. 
 Nowhere else but in the paper. Like a lot of other guesses that get into the papers.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
