  First I want to announce that Captain Clifford has been made Special Counsel to the President. He has been acting in that capacity nearly all the time since Judge Rosenman left; and Captain James H. Foskett, U.S. Navy, will be the new Naval Aide to the President. There are mimeographed sheets telling all about both of these gentlemen that you can have when you go out.   The Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion prepared a statement on the food record which we have made, that is rather impressive. We have shipped, in 6 months, over five and a half million tons of bread grains to help feed the hungry people in other lands. In another 3 weeks we shall have met our half-year goal of six million tons.  But the crisis is not over yet, and will not be over when we reach our half-year goal. Cooperation and determined effort by the public--by each one of us--must be continued during the coming 6 months of hunger ahead.  Soon after July 1st, I will receive from the Secretary of Agriculture final figures not only on food grains but on the entire contribution of the United States toward meeting the world food needs during the last full year.  We have made a real record on that, and are continuing to make it, so if we have had to do without a little bread here and there, we can feel assured that we have kept people from starving by doing that.  This full report of Mr. Snyder is the last one he made before he left. It will be available for you in mimeographed form, and covers the whole program of what has happened in regard to the food situation. 1    1 See Item 144.  That's all the announcements I have to make.    I suggest that you take that up with the State Department. They are handling it.    I didn't know he was here. I haven't seen him yet. I will talk to him first.    We have had it under consideration, but we haven't decided yet to seize it. I think probably it can be settled without a seizure. I hope so.    I will have to make that decision when I get the bill. It is unfortunate it has been so long in reaching me.    Probably won't.   The letter speaks for itself.  2 Senator Tobey's remarks in the Senate on June 26, including letters exchanged with the president, are printed in the Congressional Record . Senator Tobey's letter, which begins with the words "This is a Macedonian cry" is an appeal for grain for the poultry of New Hampshire.   I used to consider Presidential letters confidential. I don't any more.    No comment. The letter speaks for itself.    Well, I hope he will. Mr. Bowles has been trying to quit ever since he came here. The first thing he did was to send me a letter of resignation, and come in and say that he wanted to quit. He has been anxious to return to Connecticut, but I have held him on and on. Maybe I can succeed in keeping him further.    Of course I am very sorry to hear it, and we are sending the proper condolences.  1 Juan Antonio Rios.  He was a very fine gentleman. He spent a night with me in the White House, and we thought very highly of him.    You had better talk to Senator McKellar about that. I can't read Senator McKellar's mind. You want me to read Senator McKellar's mind? I can't do that.   I have been trying to get them ever since the bill came up to me. It has been a difficult matter to get them to accept the position. 2    2  For appointments to the board  see Items 177  and 183.   I haven't kept track of--   Yes, it would run into 20 or 30.   Most of them are making so much money they didn't like to work for the Government at the pecuniary salaries of Government people, and patriotism does not appeal in peacetime as it does in war.   Yes, he was asked to take a place on it, and he can't leave.   Who?   Yes, he was offered the job. He is making so much money he can't afford to come back with the Government.    I haven't received the report from him. When it has gone the rounds, I suppose I will receive one. It will be available as soon as his job terminates, which is the 1st of July.    I have no comment on that.    No.    No it isn't, at the present time.   No I can't. I have no comment to make on that.    The Hobbs bill is not before me yet, Duke. 1   When it comes up here, I will make up my mind. It's now going the rounds of the various departments for the usual comments that they have to make before the bill comes before me.  1 Duke Shoop of the Kansas City Stat.    Yes I have.   Not a thing.    I can't go.   I can't go. Much to my regret. I would like to go.   No, I am not.  There isn't a chance of my going anywhere, any time soon--[more laughter]--I am sorry to say.  All right.
