 Well, I haven't any special announcements to make to you this morning, so any questions you want to ask I will try to answer.  
 No. 
 No. They are not a presiding board. They are merely a jury. I have not decided because I have not heard from those that have been asked. As soon as they reply and decide to go, I will announce them to you. 
 I have asked some people to act. 
 No, no. 
 I wish I could, but I can't go.  
 No, I have not. 
 Five. 
 No. 
 No comment. 
 No comment.  
 I haven't read Mr. Macmillan's speech, so I have no comment to make on it.  
 I have no comment on it. I know nothing about it.  
 No. Not this morning. I will answer that at the proper time.  
 I have made no decision as yet. 
 It has been discussed with Justice Douglas. 
 No. 
 I did not. I said it had been discussed.  
 No. 
 That is my policy. And when I get behind a man, I usually stay behind him.  
 No.  
 No, I have not.  
 No, it does not. 
 I didn't hear the question. 
 It isn't ready yet. Whenever it is ready, it will be released.  
 It isn't proper to release it as yet. It will be released when General Marshall's work is completed in China. 
 No, I can't. I can't give you that.  
 Governor Wallgren would make a fine Secretary, but I can't possibly have two Cabinet officers from the great State of Washington. 
 Well, you draw your own conclusions. 
 No. He is a legal resident of Washington-lives at Walla Walla. 
 Justice Douglas.
 Now, wait a minute, I want to show you something I think you will enjoy. Lieutenant General Richardson showed me some GI drawings that are rather unusual, due to the fact that they are drawn apparently by artists who believe in an infinite ability for taking pains. They are not "dogs."  These are soldier drawings that were sent me. They are, I think, most remarkable. I thought maybe you would like to see them. These young artists ought to be complemented, because they do not belong to the "ham and egg" class of artists-[laughter]--which--. Look at this--[indicating]--don't you think those are wonderful? 
 No. Three or four artists represented. 
 What was that? I didn't hear it. 
 These so-called pictures that look as if they had stood off and thrown an egg at them--smeared them--[laughter].  These young men don't belong in that class. They still believe that there is--a good deal depends on careful work, and trying to make you see what they intend you to see, and not leave it to your imagination.  
 Draw your own conclusions.  I believe in infinite taking of pains in anything you try to do. 
 Yes.  
 I didn't say I couldn't have. I said I didn't think I should have. 
 That's right. 
 Shall we start over? I say, shall we start over?
 No. It does not exclude Mort Wallgren, either. 
 That's right. 
 Oh yes. I know all about Justice Douglas.  He is a friend of mine--for a long time. 
 I will answer that question later. 
 Mr. Schwellenbach is going to stay Secretary of Labor. Mr. Anderson is going to stay Secretary of Agriculture. That is definite. Just so long as they want to stay. 
 Well, let's discuss that when that happens, if it does.  
 Well, we will have to take the returns from surplus property for whatever it brings. We made the best estimate we were capable of making on that. 
 Well, your guess is as good as anybody's. From all the information we could get, we thought that was a very good guess. 
 Well, let's wait and see what it brings, and I will answer your question.  
 No, I did not.  1 Joseph Mindszenty.  
 Well, I have always been optimistic, and I still am.  
 It did not. The things that Mr. Churchill and I discussed were the speech--the speech and the trip to Missouri. 
 I don't know whether he will or not. 
 I don't think so. I did not discuss the matter with Mr. Byrnes.  
 No, I do not.  
 No comment.  
 Just as soon as it is ready. It won't be very long. 
 None whatever, except that it is a detail that has to be worked out, and it takes a little time. It will be carried out in plenty of time. The Senate has to act on the appointment of Paul Porter before anybody else could take over in the Office.  
 No.  
 What was that? 
 We discussed atomic energy and not spies.  
 Not immediately.  
 He did. He did that on his trip to Great Britain, before the meeting of the Prime Ministers. 
 Yes--
 --prior to the atomic meeting. 
 No, I didn't. 
 They have always been adequate, and I think they still are.  
 I had expected it to be at it right now. At least, that was my expectation last November. Of course, it depends altogether on contingencies. If everybody's willing to go to work and put in everything, why it will not take very long for that full production peak to be hit. 
 NO, no, No estimate has been made now. Just wait and see what works out. If everybody goes back to work as he should, it will be here very quickly. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
