 Please be seated.  I have a couple of announcements I want to make to you before we start.   The Economic Message will go up to the Congress tomorrow, and it will be ready for your use some time late this evening, I think.  1   And if you will get in touch with Mr. Short   2  on that, you can taunt him all you like.   1   See Item 11.   2  Joseph Short, Secretary to the President.   There has been a great deal of conversation about the Fair Deal, lots of comment on it since the message.  3  I want to get it straight, and I am having a mimeographed statement prepared for you, which is a quotation from the message, which I think you ought to read very carefully.   3   The State of the Union Message, Item 4.   "We stand behind the Fair Deal and the Democratic platform as much today as ever.  "We do, however, recognize that in an emergency like the present, first things come first, and our defense programs must have top priority.  "There is no reason for anyone to be in doubt about this. I said it as plainly as I could in my State of the Union Message. Let me refresh your memory by reading a few paragraphs in that message:  "'In the months ahead, the Government must give priority to activities that are urgent-like military procurement, atomic energy, and power development. It must practice rigid economy in its nondefense activities. Many of the things we would ordinarily do must be curtailed or postponed.  "'But in a long-term defense effort like this one, we cannot neglect the measures needed to maintain a strong economy and a healthy democratic society.  "'The Congress, therefore, should give continued attention to the measures which our country will need for the long pull. And it should act upon such legislation as promptly as circumstances permit.'"  I just want to put you dear on that, because there has been a lot of speculation about whether I am going back on the Democratic platform or not. I am not.  Now you can ask your questions, if you like.  
 It is not true. If you will call up the Defense Department, they will confirm what I am telling you.  
 Asked for labor legislation that would clarify the situation so that we could get along better than we had been getting along in the past. If that requires the repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act, why that's it. 
 That is up to the Congress to make the decision.  
 Let me read something here, May.  5  I didn't intend to say anything about that unless you asked the question, and I thought maybe you would.    5   Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.   "Under the President's constitutional powers as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces he has the authority to send troops anywhere in the world. That power has been recognized repeatedly by the Congress and the courts.  "This Government will continue to live up to its obligations under the United Nations, and its other treaty obligations, and we will continue to send troops wherever it is necessary to uphold these obligations."  Now, Dean Acheson in his testimony before the Foreign Relations Committee made it perfectly plain that the Atlantic Treaty did not require that troops be sent, but that each country itself should make up its own mind as to what was necessary for the defense of the Atlantic Treaty countries.  That is a matter of record in the Foreign Relations Committee, and that is what Senator Connally was referring to. 
 Well--how much of it? You want both those paragraphs read again ? 
  "Under the President's constitutional powers as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, he has the authority to send troops anywhere in the world. That power has been recognized repeatedly by the Congress and the courts."  And I can give you the page, and the number of the citation, if you want it. I haven't got it with me just now, but you will find decisions by at least three Chief Justices on that very subject. 
 We always do that, May. We never make any moves in foreign affairs or on any domestic affairs, or any other affairs, that we do not very considerably consult with the committees that are interested in it. We have always done that, and there has been no change in that policy, and won't be. And any Senator who wants to talk to the President can always get a date to do it. 
 No. Can't make a commitment like that because we don't know how many we are going to have. 
 I do. But, of course, in the latter case, the Congress would be consulted before we do it, as we always do. 
 What's that? 
 Or any other subject. 
 Why certainly. I made that perfectly plain last week. 
 No, it did not-- 
 Well-- 
 The opinions don't have any bearing on what the President intended, because they are all on his side. 
 No, no. That's correct. 
 No, I didn't say that. I said in case of necessity for the defense of the Atlantic Charter countries--treaty countries--of course I would consult the Congress. It may be necessary to use troops in Germany in an emergency. You can't tell. 
 No--it would be with the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees, which we always consult on every subject that has to do with foreign relations and with defense. I want to make that perfectly plain. 
 No. 
 No, you do not want to take that view of the thing. I said that--in case of necessity and it became necessary, for the defense of the Atlantic Treaty countries, that Congress would be consulted before troops were sent. I don't ask their permission, I just consult them. 
 Yes--well, the latter. 
 The latter. 
 Of course the Armed Services and Foreign Relations Committees would be consulted and told about it. 
 Let Doris Fleeson  6  finish, Tony,  7  you have got a front seat. What is it?   6  Doris Fleeson of the Bell Syndicate.    7  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  Doris Fleeson: Not one of the Republican triumvirate of Senators Wherry, Millikin, and Taft is a member of either the Foreign Relations or the Armed Services. In what way would it be possible for you to bring them into the consultation, or do you feel that the Foreign Relations Committee and Armed Services Committee would cover it for the minority party ?  THE PRESIDENT. They have a perfect right to sit with those committees whenever they feel like it; and as I said before, the front door of the White House is always open. 
 That's not my fault-- 
 --that's not my fault. He controls the Republican side of the House. If he is not a member of the committee it is because he doesn't want to be.  
 He has not. He is taking orders.  
 No. It has always been done. 
 Same procedure that has been followed ever since I have been here, and I came here January 3d, 1935, officially-spent 10 years in the Senate, and spent the other 6 up here. 
 All the time. 
 We always do that. It's nothing new at all. 
 Certainly. You must always bear in mind, in the background, that it is necessary for the Congress to appropriate the money for the Government to be carried on.  
 As I told you time and again, the door has always been open. I don't have to make special invitations to Senators. They ask to come to see me, and I let them.  
 Why certainly. 
 Certainly. 
 What's the use of going to all this trouble if we are not going to make use of what we are doing? 
 Why certainly--that's right, that's right. I'll keep telling it over and over and over--just keep on asking!  
 Go ahead. 
 No, I have not. General Marshall has. Dean Acheson has. They have been consulted. General Marshall and Dean Acheson represent me when they are down before these committees. 
 That is up to the Congress, if they want to go to the country with that--and I'll go with them. And I licked them once. 
 Those that are necessary, yes. 
 Well, we will have to wait and see what General Eisenhower's report is before we make any definite plans. 
 That's right.  
 Just the same as it was. Price and wage controls are on the way, and as soon as it is possible it will be put into effect. Mr. Wilson  8  will confirm that, if you want to ask him about it.   8  Charles E. Wilson, Director, Office of Defense Mobilization. 
 I did. I did recommend that. 
 No, no. It doesn't have anything to do with parity. This is the consumers prices that I am referring to, of things to eat. 
 No, the farmers and labor and industry must all be on a par. They must all be treated exactly alike. That is what the intention of Mr. Wilson's setup is, to see that everybody is fairly treated--and that includes the consumer who is being gouged a little right now.  
 No.  
 No.  
 We will cross that bridge when we get to it. I don't know whether you had any experience in World War II on price controls and wage adjustments. I did. And that was part of my job on that committee. And it is one of the most difficult things in Government, to do just what we are trying to do now. We are trying to do it in an orderly manner, and trying to profit by the mistakes which we made in World War II.   9  Dr. Alan Valentine, Administrator, Economic Stabilization Agency.  
 I will answer that question when it becomes necessary. I can't answer it now.  
 I will send the tax message down just as soon as I can get it ready.  10  If you will carefully read Mr. Snyder's   11  interview yesterday, he covered it thoroughly.   10  See Item 28.    11  John W. Snyder, Secretary of the Treasury.  
 No, I do not. 
 Parity has nothing to do with price and wage controls at all. It is an entirely different question. All we are after--you will find that the farmer has not profited by these increased food prices at all. I had the Secretary of Agriculture make a survey, and the wholesale prices of farm products are very little above what they were in June. 
 Well, whatever is necessary to be done to meet the situation will be done.  
 I can't answer the question.  
 What do you mean ? 
 You are talking about bribery now, and I don't have anything to do with that. I don't believe in it. That's what ruined the Chiang Kai-shek government, just that sort of procedure.  Q.  Thank you, Mr. President.   Merriman Smith : Thank you, Mr. President.  Note: President Truman's two hundred and fiftieth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, January 11, 1951. 
