 I have got a statement I will read you, then we will go into questions.  Mr. Ross: This conference is for background purposes, and any information given out is not for attribution except as to the statement. The rest of it is informative only, and not for attribution to the President, unless specific permission is given in some particular case.   THE PRESIDENT . "The preparation of the budget for the fiscal year 1949 has been a painstaking process.  "Beginning nearly a year ago, I asked the Bureau of the Budget to make advance studies to indicate the expenditure ranges required to carry out alternate policies and present them to me for my decision. In order to achieve maximum economy, the general policy I decided to follow for going programs was to hold 1949 appropriations at or below the 1948 level, despite rising prices, except in circumstances where this was clearly not in the public interest. Under this policy, and if no new legislation were required, the 1949 budget expenditures would not exceed $34 billion.  "The policies on which this budget is based, therefore, mean that under present conditions of high costs, it is even more realistic and hard boiled than the 1948 budget was.  "In order to portray clearly some of the major facts about this budget, I am distributing 10 charts. I should like particularly to refer to 4 of these charts.  "First, the chart covering Federal budget receipts and expenditures for the period 1939 to 1949 shows clearly the effective work which has been done to bring down the wartime peak of expenditures. It shows graphically the important fact that 1949 will be the third consecutive year in which we have achieved a surplus. This surplus is one of the most important factors in combating inflation, and an essential element of prudent fiscal management.  "Second, the chart comparing changes in major Government programs for the years 1939 and 1949 shows that in 1939 only 29 percent of our expenditures was devoted to the categories of national defense, international affairs, veterans, interest on the public debt, and tax refunds, leaving 71 percent for all other Government expenses. In the 1949 budget, this relationship is completely reversed. The five programs mentioned will require 79 percent of expenditures, leaving only 21 percent for all other activities.  "In this 10-year period the per capita increase for these 5 programs has been very great, whereas the per capita increase for all other Government expenditures has been relatively small. Per capita expenditures for national defense have increased from $8 in 1939 to $75 in 1949; international expenditures from 15 cents in 1939 to $48 in 1949. Veterans expenditures have increased from $4 in 1939 to $42 in 1949. Debt interest and tax refunds have increased from $8 in 1939 to $49 in 1949. Contrasted with these, the total for all other expenses of the Federal Government has increased only $7--from $49 in 1939 to $56 in 1949. This is a comparatively small increase when we consider the sharp increase in the cost of all the goods and services the Government must buy.  "The third chart covering civilian employment in the executive branch reveals that, while the number of civilian employees in the War and Navy Departments and emergency war agencies increased rapidly during the war, the number has decreased rapidly since the war. The chart shows clearly that there has been no substantial increase since 1939 in the total of civilian employees for most of the Government agencies. For all departments and agencies other than the War and Navy Departments, the emergency war agencies, the Veterans Administration, and the Post Office, the total of civilian employees was 366,770 in 1939 and 408,000 at the end of November in the present fiscal year. Much of this increase can be traced to the new and expanded programs resulting from war effort. For instance, more employees are now needed by the Bureau of Internal Revenue and the Bureau of Public Debt to handle increased workloads. Also the State Department, the Maritime Commission, and the Panama Canal and Panama Railroad now require more employees than in 1939.  "Fourth, the chart covering Federal budget expenditures by function shows not only the amount recommended for expenditure under each of the major functional categories, but also the trend in these for the 3 fiscal years, 1947, 1948, and 1949.  "I hope these charts will be helpful in understanding the 1949 budget."  The remarkable thing about the budget to me is the fact that we have been able to hold it well below the 1948 fiscal year budget, and had it not been for our requirements for foreign aid and things of that sort, we would have been $3 1/2 billion below the 1948 budget.  And I think you will find, as you analyze the budget and go through it, that it is a budget based on the facts as they will appear. Every Cabinet officer and every head of an independent agency has made the statement to me that this budget was gotten up in better form and in better shape and with more cooperation than anybody's budget that they had any knowledge of. Every Cabinet officer told me that yesterday at the Cabinet meeting, and I have heard from the heads of the independent agencies--and several of them this morning--and they all feel the same way about it.  Now if you want to ask questions, I will try my best to answer them.    No, not in detail.   It does. Yes.   No, that has not been prepared. As soon as that is ready, why you will be informed what that total is. The State Department is working on it now.   Well, China is the principal one, and the 16 European nations, and of course there are situations in the Far East which may need looking into the same as the 16 nations in Europe. That will develop as we go along.    No, UNRRA will not be used. The establishment is--we are trying to maintain the establishment in the various departments as we have it now. If you will read the message which I sent down to Congress, you will find the outline of the program as we expect to implement it. Of course, there will be some additional personnel necessary, but not anything like the setup that was under UNRRA.    I don't think it has been a bit more difficult. The reason for that is because there are always bills pending in the Congress which may be passed, and we have to anticipate what may happen. For instance, the pay raise of last year, if you will remember, and the year before, had to be anticipated or we would have been in a bad fix budgetwise.  Director Webb: The legislative budget requires us to indicate the things you intend to send up.   That is true. The Director of the Budget says the legislative budget requires that we do that, but I don't think it's a bit confusing. All you have got to do is to settle down on one side and read the budget.     Well, supplemental appropriations might be necessary for a salary increase or for a change in the Veterans Administration approach by the Congress, or several different things like that.   Well, I will get the Director of the Budget to define it for you.  Director Webb: Those are things that are estimated requirements about which we do not have complete information at this time, and are included so that the budget will indicate the total of all the things that the President knows he will have to send down, even though he may not have the detail to substantiate complete submission at this time.   Then it won't be spent.   Doesn't do what?   The budget does reflect it properly, and if the Congress doesn't pass the appropriation, it will be just as if it didn't exist. I am anticipating that the Congress will carry out the Marshall plan.   No, no. The Congress would have to pass an increase in the corporation taxes, and the Treasury would have the machinery set up to take care of that situation. That is the simplest approach we could find to it, and was recommended by the Economic Advisers as the most satisfactory way of relieving the cost of living to the small taxpayer.    The Director of the Budget can.  Director Webb: I think the Secretary of the Treasury probably--who gets receipts and estimates that, should speak on that.   Go ahead.  Secretary Snyder: These figures are based on the I would rather give you that in a couple of hours, because we have started out--used a lower figure and then raised it, and I want to be sure of the figure we use. So I will get it for you when you leave.  Director Webb: The President states in his budget the total general assumption, Mr. Secretary, that I think indicates--would you like me to read that? "The estimates assume a continuation of the present high level of business activity and incomes, continued full employment, and stable prices close to the present level."   I can tell you, but I am going to let the Secretary of the Treasury give you the actual figure.    Yes.   You will find it in the Department of the Interior and in the Department of Agriculture also. Then you will find it in flood control.   Look at that chart, it explains it very definitely.  Director Webb: Mr. President, also in the back we have included a section which draws together all the civil and public works.   It's in the big book.    That is what is intended.   You have got to increase those enough so that they can have enough to eat. That's what the difficulty is.   I don't think they will clash with each other at all.  Director Webb: Two different things, Mr. President.   Yes.  Director Webb: Weldon, you may want to straighten him out on that.  Mr. Jones: I didn't think there was any clash. That is largely trust funds, and so forth, which do not affect the budgetary expenditures.   Almost entirely trust funds.  Mr. Jones: That is the proposal.   You will find it set out in the chart where the trust funds are shown.   That's right.   Being worked on now by the social security setup, and I am going to send a special message down on that later.   Well, I don't want to make any statement on it right now.  1 Arthur J. Altmeycr, Commissioner for Social Security.   Yes.   One-half on each, I am sure, but I want to be--   Depends on how the Congress acts on it.   I will tell you when the message goes down. It isn't in this Budget Message.    Can you answer that?  Director Webb: We haven't made any calculation on that. The increases in the budget between this revision and the one last August are pretty clearly indicated in the budget and relate largely to increases in the international field.   M13.   The Director of the Budget says that is for the payment of the overhead cost. Only runs a few million dollars.    Was that true?   Well, I think the Treasury finally revised its estimate after the first collection period was in. That is the only way it could be revised. The other was probably a guess. The Treasury works on the figures as they are.  Secretary Snyder: They must have had a better insight into the rise in prices.  They must have known what they were going to. do to them.    Do you understand the difference between expenditures and the requirements of the budget, do you? I tried to explain that to you. Entirely different figures.  1 Representative John Taber of New York.   You understand what a pipeline is?  Director Webb: Four and a half.   In these things the pipeline has to be filled first, and it takes--it will take considerable time to get that pipeline working, and the rest of the expenditures will extend over into the following fiscal year. That doesn't have anything to do with what is required.    The decision is that we will eventually go ahead with the merchant marine program. We have got to do the best we can, though, when we can't get the money. We are asking for what we think we can get.  Director Webb: You can study that report, too.    Yes, I can tell you. The suggestion came from the Economic Advisers that this was a proper approach to the situation, and then it was figured out what $20 would do, what $25 would do, what $30 would do; and it was finally decided that the 40 figure would come more nearly meeting the necessary cost-of-living program for more people than any other figure, and that the increase in the corporation tax, which would be just enough to offset it, would not in any way injure corporation profits. You see, in 1947 they had the greatest profit they ever had in their history--$12 1/2 billion. This year it's 17 billion. That's how we arrived at that conclusion.    I didn't know about Mrs. Douglas's bill.  1  Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas of California.   I didn't know about Mrs. Douglas's bill.   Excess profits tax.   It was considered too difficult to administer. It was difficult to administer, and we decided that a straight increase probably would be better. The Treasury is working on the bill now.  Secretary Snyder: Haven't settled on that now.   The Secretary tells me he hasn't settled on which approach it will be.   Excess profits?   That will be straightened out.    We want to treat everybody just alike. I think everybody is equal before the law, isn't that part of your constitutional teaching? Want to treat everybody just alike.   That's right.   What is it, Miss May? 1  1 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press-Herald.   Miss May, that is a question for argument. That is a question for argument.    I don't see why they should, at the rate profits are coming in.   I can't answer that question. I would be glad if you would furnish me the figures.   Somewhere in that neighborhood.  Secretary Snyder: Make it 13.   Totaling about a straight across-the-board rate.   About 51 percent. I think it is 38 now.    Same sort of adjustment they have now. I think there is an exemption of $25,000 or $50,000 now.    Yes, and they are going to get more help. Under the plan they will get more help than the one that is proposed in the Congress.   Where did it get the 23 billion it spent over the last year and a half? From the same place.   They got it from the sale of securities. They got some of it on profits. Just a general business approach to the thing. This is, you understand, to extend over a period of years. It doesn't mean to be a $50 billion expenditure in one year. It's a 10-year period about which I have been talking.   I don't think so. We are not trying to contract bank credit where it will increase production. We are only trying to contract bank credit where it does not increase production, or for speculative purposes--particularly speculative.   No, that is just a statement of fact.    Can you answer that?  Director Webb: You propose certain specific legislation here, and there are estimates for that for this year.   We have proposed certain specific legislation here and the estimates are in the budget for those specific proposals.   Yes. Yes, that's in that table.  Director Webb: Page M56 .    No.   Well, the reason that estimate is not included is because it hasn't even been reported out of the committee. It has been pending for the last 5 years--ever since I was in the Senate. That is one of the reasons it isn't in there. If you can assure me that the Congress will act on them, why I will put them in the budget by a supplemental.   Well, we'll see. The answer will come along about May or June.   You asked about the national income on which this budget was figured. It is 192 billions.
