 Pease be seated.  Start in asking questions, and I will try to answer them.  
 I do. 
 Yes, I expect to deliver the State of the Union in person on January 8th, if we can get ready.  
 That is not true. 
 Yes, I have--I have discussed it. In fact, I sent the reorganization plan down on the RFC, and it was turned down. 1   1 See Item 114. 
 No.[Pause]  What's the matter--what's the matter? Christmas holidays got you ?   
 No, I have no comment on that. The price control people are working as hard as they can to meet the situation. You have got to give them a chance to do it. 
 I can't answer that question because I haven't looked into it. I only know what I have seen in the papers. But I didn't read the law carefully when I signed it.  I have somebody else to do that for me.  
 I certainly do.[Pause]  There never was such a dry--  
 Well, I just want to say this, that the country is not going back to isolationism. You can be sure of that.  2  In a radio-television address over the Mutual Broadcasting System on December 20, President Hoover urged the United States to concentrate on preservation of the Western Hemisphere by holding the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans with the island outposts of Britain, Japan, Formosa, and the Philippines.  The full text of the former President's address is Published in the Congressional Record . 
 Well now, I would have to make you a speech that would take all afternoon, and you haven't got time to listen to that. 
 No, I will not comment further. 
 The White House mail is running for the President of the United States on that subject. 
 Nothing else. Read it carefully. 
 All right.  
 Go ahead--I won't scold you. 
 I can't comment on that at this time. I'm sorry.  
 Just as quickly as we can get it ready. I don't know how soon that will be. It takes quite a while to get a tax program in order. Just as soon as it is in order, and the committees in the Treasury are in substantial agreement on it, why we will send it up.  
 I didn't change my mind. I stated it would be quite a while before an ambassador was appointed to Spain. The Secretary of State sent a letter to Senator Connally last January. We have been deliberating on it ever since. There is no change in policy with regard to Spain, except that we need an exchange of ambassadors which makes it a little more orderly way to do business with the two governments. But my attitude toward Spain hasn't changed a bit.  3 On February 1, 1951, Stanton Griffis was confirmed by the United States Senate to be Ambassador to Spain.  
 Yes, I looked at the letter. I read it, not in detail because I don't think Senator Byrd knows very much about the budget. But I read the preliminary part of the letter, and I was very happy to find one sentence in which Senator Byrd said he wanted to cooperate with the Government of the United States and with the President in particular; and I wrote him thanking him very kindly for that. And I am glad to hear it.   4  On December 22, 1950, Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia wrote to the President urging a reduction in the Federal budget for fiscal year 1952. The letter is printed in the Congressional Record .  
 Well now, we are gradually approaching what is necessary, and if it becomes necessary for that to come about, it will. But I can't give you any detailed information on it because we are not ready. 
 It takes a long time.  
 I have recommended universal training, I think, seven or eight times. 5  My position on it hasn't changed. But you can't run an emergency such as we are running now with two sets of training programs. We have only got enough people for the one program. I hope that we will have a universal training program before we get through.  See Item 225. 
 Universal training, that's the word I used.  
 No. I haven't with Mr. Dulles. 6   6 On December 29 John Foster Dulles, Consultant to the Secretary of State, upheld the administration's foreign policy in an address before the American Association for the United Nations at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City. The full text of Mr. Dulles' address is published in the Congressional Record . 
 No, I didn't know about that telegram either. I'm sorry. 
 He did not consult with me. There are a lot of people in the White House, though, he may have talked to somebody.  
 Yes, I am always recommending it--I expect a dozen times, altogether. 7 Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.  7 See Item 231. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fortyeighth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, December 28, 1950. 
