 Good morning. How are you all? 
 I was just watching it. They tell me that the streets are as slick as glass.  
 Yes I did! I walked before the snow started. No, I didn't miss it. 
 Well, I always leave the White House between half past 6 and a quarter to 7. It snowed about 10 minutes after 7. Sure did. I hardly ever miss. 
 I hardly ever miss, unless it's pouring down rain.  I have no particular announcements to make. If you have any questions, I will try to answer them.  
 I do not. 
 LUST paying an official visit to Puerto Rico to see how they are getting along in their native government.  
 Mr. Lippmann is entitled to his opinion the same as anybody else. I have no comment to make on it.  
 It will be some time yet before it will be ready. I have that special committee, as you know, getting all the facts together, and as soon as that special committee makes the report, then I shall send up the message. 
 That is under consideration, and will--at a later date I will make an announcement on it.  
 I do not.  
 As soon as I have made the decision I will make the announcements immediately.  
 Yes indeed. I have always been for it ever since 1905, and that's a long time. I demonstrated that I was for it because I immediately went into training when I was 21 years old.  
 Time and again. Time and again. 
 We are working it out. We have been working on it all the time to the best of our ability. 
 It's a vital thing. Of course it's vital. We have been working on it all the time--doing everything we can to alleviate it.  
 National Guard. 
 When I was 21.  
 I always give my opinion on bills when they come to my desk for signature, and not before that time.  
 NO comment.  
 I will comment on that when that situation develops. It has by no means developed yet.  
 Well sir, I would prefer not to comment on that. Senator Taft is entitled to his opinion. I will give you my comments when those matters come to my desk. I will give them to you in no uncertain terms.  
 It's all right. 
 Yes. It is going to be much greater than that when we get through collecting all the taxes. 
 We are going to come mighty close to it. I don't want to make any comment on it until we have got all the figures in, but we will have a cash balance. But whether the budget will show a balance or not, I don't know. They are two entirely different things.  
 I have not yet come to the conclusion that OPA is going to die.  
 No.  
 In a very short time. Just as soon as it is ready, I will make it public and send it up.  
 I think I stated that in the statement in the message at the time. If you will read that message I think you will find just exactly what I think about it.  
 I will cross that bridge when I get to it.  
 I hadn't heard about it. I don't know how they could reach any conclusions because they don't know anything about the whole picture. 
 I don't know anything about that. I haven't seen or heard of it.  
 I am still behind Mr. Lilienthal 100 percent, and I think he will be confirmed. 
 I hear a comment, and so do I.   
 Well, I got up early enough so that it wasn't snowing when I left. I left the White House about 20 minutes of 7 and got back about a quarter after. I went up 17th to Rhode Island, over to 15th Street and back to the White House just about 2 miles. 
 That's right. 
 Well, of course, they are busy with other things. They don't have time to look at the emergencies closely. But they will probably get around to it. I hope they will.  
 That matter is under consideration. As soon as a decision has been reached, the announcement will be made on it.  
 I haven't heard about it.  
 That is a matter on which I don't want to make any comment. The actions will speak for that. 
 Well, not immediately. Not in the immediate future. 
 No. Same condition it has been all the time.  
 No sir, I have not. I will make the announcement to you just as soon as the decision is reached.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
