 Be seated, please. I have no special announcements to make, so I will listen for questions.  \. He was not Secretary of State at that time. He was a special envoy of mine and he went there for the Secretary of State and myself, and he had his instructions and they are in writing. \. It hasn't reached me yet, and I will not keep you in suspense. I will let you have the answer just as quickly as the bill gets on my desk.  1 See Item 254.  \. I think you will find that there are very few, and I think you will find that there are more Republicans who voted the fight way than there are Democrats who went wrong, so it is still a bipartisan foreign policy. \. Yes, I do. The record will speak for itself. 2  In an address before the American Federation of Labor convention in Houston on September 19, W. Averell Harriman, Special Assistant to the President, stated that Communist objectives would have been furthered had Congress followed Senator Robert A. Taft's opposition to the Marshall plan and the North Atlantic Treaty.  \. If I can find the right man, I will not hesitate to appoint him. I have several people under consideration. 3\. I say I have several people under consideration.  3 See Item 258 . \. No names mentioned.   \. I am going to fill them just as quickly as I can find the men for the places. There will be no delay, if I can help it.  \. You want to know who the stabilization director will be? I can't tell you at this minute.  4  Executive Order 10161 "Delegating Certain Functions of the President Under the Defense Production Act of 1950" .  \. I agree with that--\. --I agree with that. Yes, we are working on plans all the time to meet that situation. \. No, I can't. I can't tell you how soon. I am no prophet. I work to the point and as soon as I get there, I will act. And as soon as I act, then you will know all about it. And I am going to do it as expeditiously as I can, but it has to be done in an orderly manner.  We are trying to avoid the mistakes which were made at the beginning of the Second World War. I was present at that time. And we are trying to attain the position which we held when that war was over, without going through all the travail--the travail and the trial and error business which had to be gone through at that time because we didn't know how.  \. That has not reached my desk as yet. It probably will be there. Everything finally arrives there.   \. That has been discussed throughout the Government, and we haven't arrived at a conclusion on it as yet. We are working as hard as we can to meet the situation as we find it.  5 Governor of Connecticut and former head of the World War II Office of Price Administration.  \. I think they are making great progress, and I think before they get through they will have attained their objectives. It takes time to do things like that.  \. This Congress has given me what I asked for substantially. There are some things, of course, that aren't finished as yet, but I am very well pleased with the progress that this Congress has made, and I think they feel like they have accomplished the purpose for which they met. And now they want to go home and attend to a little private business--and I am for them.   \. What? \. I have no plans.  \. No, I have not. That is a matter for the United Nations to decide. That is a United Nations force, and we are one of the many who are interested in that situation. It will be worked out by the United Nations and I will abide by the decision that the United Nations makes.  \. Naming who?\. She is under consideration. \. Sarah Hughes of Texas, to the Federal Trade Commission.  \. No, it hasn't--no, it hasn't.  \. I am more than happy that they are here. I expect to meet them all after this press conference is over, and ask them how they liked the greatest show in Washington.   Reporter: A little brief today--thank you.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right! Note: President Truman's two hundred and fortieth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, September 21, 1950.  
