 Good morning everybody. Please be seated.  I don't have any announcements for you this morning, but I will try to answer questions if I can.    No comment. I think the Veterans Bureau answered that. It is a matter that is up to Congress. They are simply obeying the law. 1  1 See Item 102.  I want to say further that these Korean veterans ought to be treated in exactly the same way as all the other war veterans have been treated. And they will be; but it requires a change in the law to do it.    That is a rumor that has no foundation in fact. What is it, Tony? 2  2 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.    That is news to me. I hadn't heard about it. That is a rumor that has no foundation in fact, too, Tony.   Well, well, well! What's the matter this morning? I guess one of the things that's the matter with you is because all your questions have been answered, either Monday night 3  or by General Marshall. 4  I think that is probably what's the trouble.   3 See Item 96.  4 In early May 1951 Secretary of Defense George C. Marshall testified at Senate committee hearings during the investigation of the military situation in the Far East and the facts surrounding the relief of General of the Army Douglas MacArthur from his assignments in that area.  In his testimony Secretary Marshall stated, "From the very beginning of the Korean conflict, down to the present moment, there has been no disagreement between the President, the Secretary of Defense, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff that I am aware of.  "There have been, however, and continue to be basic differences of judgment between General MacArthur, on the one hand, and the President, the Secretary of Defense, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on the other hand." His complete testimony is printed in "Hearings Before the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations, United States Senate, on the Military Situation in the Far East, Part 1" .    I am very satisfied with General Marshall's testimony. I think he has made a great witness; and I know this: he has told the exact truth, word for word.    Shoot, May. 5  5 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.   That is all it was ever supposed to be--a planning agency. It was never intended to be anything else. It is a part of the staff of the President of the United States, and it will continue to be just what it always has been.   Yes, I am going to appoint a new Chairman, because it is part of the staff of the President. There will be a new Chairman appointed.    Temporary. He is Acting Chairman. He is acting in the position of Acting Chairman, just as John Steelman was for a long time.  7  Jack Gorfie, Acting Chairman of the National Security Resources Board.    Well, I will tell you what I would like for you to do. Go back and read a little history in 1946. This is just the same old fight. Whenever you tread on the toes of anybody, he has to scream. I think it will work out as it should. If we are going to have controls, we have got to put them into effect as far as we can. That order was put up to me, and I approved.   I have already backed him up.  8 Michael V. DiSalle, Director of Price Stabilization.   I okayed the order to begin with. What about that, May? Are you getting steak any cheaper now?   I haven't thought about it. If I decide to give her a promotion, why I will do it. 9 U.S. Minister to Luxembourg.   I don't think so. You don't ask for things like that. They come to you unsolicited. I have made many an Ambassador since I have been President, and none of them ever asked me for the job. Those who have asked me for the job usually don't get them!    Yes indeed, Bob, 10  it's all right. Thank you all very much.  10 Robert G. Nixon of International News Service.
