 I have no announcements to make. I will try to answer questions so far as I can.  
 No, I can't give you any new slant on them. I think the figures speak for themselves. I had a conference with Mr. Nourse this morning who made the report to me on those figures, and on the increased activity among the manufacturing plants, but I have no comment to make on what they indicate. I will tell you more about it if the--when the quarterly report comes out the end of September.  1 In a conference held at 11:30 a.m. in the President's office at the White House, Dr. Edwin G. Nourse, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, gave the President the monthly report of the Council. The report indicated that the unemployment figure had dropped from 4,095,000 for July to 3,689,000 for August. 
 Yes, he gave me all the figures. They are released. They are public property. 
 Yes-- 
--do you want me to read them to you?  
 Yes. Six percent. Six point--six point, not percent.  
 Yes. 
 I am wholeheartedly in sympathy with that drive. I am hoping it will be successful, because we are faced with an emergency in that polio epidemic that is now going on.  He is going to try to raise, I think, 14 million-- 
--to meet that situation. I hope it is successful.  
 I know.  I can't identify them at present. A little further along in the campaign I may identify them--some individuals--some special interests-in the next year's campaign. 
 The 1950 campaign.  
 The campaign always begins on the Labor Day of the year before the election takes place.  
 I have no comment to make. Any man has a right to run for office if he wants to. 2   2 John Foster Dulles, who had announced his candidacy for the post of United States Senator from the State of New York, in a special election to be held on November 8.  In the election Mr. Dulles was defeated by former Governor Herbert H. Lehman.  
 I don't think I can, because the dictionaries are in disagreement as to what it means. I don't think anybody knows what it means. It simply is a scare word. 
 Yes. There are two or three definitions for it, none of them in agreement.  
 I like frankness. Go right ahead. 
 I see. 
 That is not hard to do, because when I was much younger, between the time I was about 16 to 20, I used to go to every vaudeville show that came to Kansas City at the old Orpheum, and at the Grand theater where the four Cohans, and Eva Tanguay, and all those people used to go. I used to have a job as an usher on Saturday afternoons. All I got out of it was to see a show, which was for nothing. I am glad that vaudeville is coming back. 
 Usher. Usher on Saturday afternoons at the Orpheum, not at the Grand. 
 Long before you were born. 
 Down at Seventh and Walnut Streets. Garage there now. 
 Kansas City. 
 That's where all the good shows came to--Kansas City. 
 Willis Woods. Oh yes, Willis Woods was around a long time after the Grand. 
 At the Orpheum I had to pay my way into that. That was the vaudeville show. Once the Orpheum Circuit. There used to be one here, Keith-Orpheum it turned out to be afterwards. It was the Orpheum here before Keith took them over.  
 I think Mrs. Roosevelt covered the situation perfectly and thoroughly. 3   3  Riots in connection with the appearance of Negro singer Paul Robeson at public gatherings near Peekskill, N.Y.  
 Of course I can't make any comment on them, because it's barely started. No comment to make.  
 That is just one out of the whole cloth. I never heard of it before.  
 It is under consideration. I can't do anything about it until I see the report of the fact-finding board, and I won't receive that report until tomorrow-- 
--I mean Saturday. 
 Whether I was going to ask for an extension of time on the steel strike. 
 Truce, yes. Extension of the truce, that is. 4   4  See Item 209.  
 I haven't seen the telegram. I guess they gave it out before it got to here. They do that--they have a habit of doing that. We are doing everything we possibly can, of course, to survey that strike, following every phase of the Railroad Labor Act to try to prevent the strike. I don't know whether it can be prevented or not. 
 Well, I am trying to find-- 
--we have exhausted nearly everything, but we are still trying to prevent a strike by every means possible-reason, principally.  
 He will be. When I get around to it. Whenever Mr. Bruce wants to quit. I don't think he is ready to quit yet. 
 Bruce? Yes. Stanton Griffis will be his successor. 
 He has been wanting to resign for the last 3 months, and I have kept him from it. 
 Well, not yet. 5   5 On September 9, the White House released the text of the President's letter accepting the resignation of James Bruce as Ambassador to Argentina, to become effective on September 1, 1949. The Ambassador's letter of resignation was released with the President's reply.  
 There are 6 of them -- 6 of them, I think. 
 I am working on them. As soon as I can get them in shape, I am going to announce them all to you. 
 Well, I don't know how soon it will be. It takes a little time. You know, the most important thing that I do as President, in my opinion, is to appoint Federal judges. I make it a rule not to appoint a man a Federal judge unless I think he is eminently qualified for that service, because they will survive me a long time as public servants, and the welfare of the country is really in the hands of the judiciary, because they get right down and decide what is right or wrong between individuals. So it will be a little while yet before I am able to announce them.  
 I can't go any further than I have gone. You went a little far when I gave you that.   
 No. 
 No.  
 For life. They have the option of retirement at the age of 70 on full pay, if they want to retire. Sometimes they do retire. I think one retired down in Alabama just the other day.  
 I don't know whether they have or not. That is not in my hands, but they will be resumed, if they have not been.  
 I can't answer that question now. If it comes around so it will be helpful for me to make a political speech in New York, I shall probably make it. 6   6 For the President's radio address as part of a program sponsored by the Independent Citizens' Committee for Herbert H. Lehman for Senator, on November 5, 1949, see Item 251.  
 No, I have no comment on that. 7   7 The nomination of Mon C. Wallgren as a member of the Federal Power Commission was confirmed by the Senate on October 19, 1949.  
 The matter is just under consideration. We are trying to find out what the report of the fact-finding board is, and then if it is necessary to take any further action I may ask for an extension of the time of the truce. 
 Haven't decided on it yet. 
 Tomorrow-Saturday, at 11 o'clock.  Now, you didn't finish your question.  
 I expect some Republicans are very much wrought up about it, so I hope to keep them that way. 
 I can't answer that question. He hasn't been acted on by the Senate as yet. He hasn't come out of the Committee, so that question I can't answer. 8    Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. It's all right.  8 The President had named Carroll O. Switzer of Iowa to be Federal District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa under a recess appointment. On October 17 the Senate Judiciary Committee postponed until the following year a list of 22 Federal Court nominations. Mr. Switzer's nomination was one of this number.
