 Please sit down.  I haven't been late for a long time, but I thought I would keep you waiting a little while.   I know what you are interested in. You are interested in censorship. And I don't believe in it. So just to keep you busy, I am going to read you a statement. \. Yes.   "There has been considerable misrepresentation and misunderstanding of the Executive order issued on September 24, 1951, relating to the handling of information which has been classified, in order to protect the national security."  And right here I want to stop and tell you that Central Intelligence had Yale University make a survey, and that survey found--and they had no connection with the Government-that 95 percent of all our information was public property.  "This Executive order represented an honest effort to find the best approach to a problem that is important to the survival of the United States of America. I issued the order with great reluctance, and only when I was convinced, after lengthy consideration, that it was necessary to protect the United States against its potential enemies. I think my record in defending civil liberties in this country demonstrates that I have no desire to suppress freedom of speech, or freedom of the press.  "I would like for the public to understand what this order undertakes to do, and why it was necessary to issue it.  "In its simplest terms, the problem is what we should do to keep military and related secrets from falling into the hands of the enemies of the United States. I do not believe that anyone could seriously contend that military secrets should be published in the newspapers, or that anyone has a right or a duty to see that military secrets are published. I believe that everyone, including Members of Congress and newspaper editors, should think twice before advocating a theory that would lead to that result.  "Whether it be treason or not, it does the United States just as much harm for military secrets to be made known to potential enemies through open publication, as it does for military secrets to be given to an enemy through the clandestine operations of spies." There isn't any difference at all.  "On the other hand, I do not believe that protection of military secrets should be made a cloak or a cover for withholding from the people information about their Government which should be made known to them. I believe that everyone, including Government officials, should try to prevent this from happening.  "It is easy to agree on these two objectives, but it was difficult to establish the means for accomplishing both of them.  "In those agencies of the Government primarily concerned with national security matters, such as the Department of State and the Department of Defense, we have had for a number of years a system of classifying information to prevent its disclosure to unauthorized persons when it would be dangerous to the national security. This system has worked reasonably well, although it has not in all instances prevented the publication of information which aided our enemies against the United States, and in other cases it has been used to classify information which actually has no particular relationship to national security."  Those are the two things that we are faced with, how to prevent our military secrets from becoming the possessions of our enemies, and how to be sure that, in doing that, we don't cover up information that ought to be made public.   "In the present defense mobilization period, it has become necessary in an increasing number of cases to make military secrets available to executive agencies other than the military departments, in order that these other agencies might effectively perform their functions that are necessary in supporting the defense effort. It is also necessary for some of these civilian agencies--such as the Central Intelligence Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, for example--to originate and protect some information vital to our defense.  "It should be readily apparent that military secrets in the hands of these other agencies should be protected just as much as when they are in the hands of the military departments. It would also seem to be sensible to provide that different agencies take the same kind of precautions to protect this information. It would not make any sense to have a paper containing military secrets carefully locked up in a safe in the Pentagon, with a copy of the same paper left lying around on the desk of a lawyer in the Justice Department.  "Now, the purpose of this Executive order is to provide a commonsense answer to these problems. It is to provide that information affecting the national security shall continue to be protected when it gets out of the hands of the military departments and into the hands of other agencies. The purpose is to provide that these other agencies shall provide the same kind of protection that is provided in the military departments.  "Another purpose of the order--and it is a most important purpose--is to provide that information shall not be classified and withheld from the public on the ground that it affects the national security, unless it is in fact actually necessary to protect such information in the interest of national security.  "In other words, one of the purposes of this Executive order is to correct abuses which may have grown up by use of overclassification of information in the name of national security.  "I think this Executive order represents a reasonable approach to a very difficult problem. I think it will work in the public interest, and I expect to watch it closely, to see that it is not used as an excuse for withholding information to which the public is entitled.  "It may well be that experience under the order will indicate that it should be changed. In that case, I will be glad to change it-and I will be glad to give consideration to reasonable suggestions for changes that are advanced in good faith.  "I would like to suggest to those who are seriously and honestly concerned about this matter, that they consider it objectively and with the interests of the United States uppermost in their minds. I would like to suggest that they consider how we can best accomplish objectives which all of us should be able to agree upon. I do not believe that the best solution can be reached by adopting an approach based on the theory that everyone has a right to know our military secrets and related information affecting the national security."  1     1 See Items 233, 234, 248, 302.  Now, I am going to hand you this in mimeographed form, and I hope every one of you will take a good look at it, and that you will give it to your editors and your publishers. And remember that 95 percent of our secret information has been revealed by newspapers and slick magazines, and that is what I am trying to stop. \. Yes. The most outstanding example was the publication in Fortune magazine of all the locations and the maps of our atomic energy plants. And then, in this very town--in every town in the country--were published air maps of Washington, New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Seattle, and other of our great cities, with arrows pointing to the key points in those towns. \. Well, I don't care who gave it out. The publishers had no business to use it, if they had the welfare of the United States at heart. \. I don't care who gave it out. The publisher should be just as patriotic as I am, and I wouldn't give it out. \. Well, I don't care about that-- \. Yes, and if the military agency gives you that, and an atomic bomb falls on you on account of that, at the right place, who is to blame? \. They did, in Fortune magazine. \. Well, they were air pictures of the great cities. And it's terrible. I wish I had them of Russia and their manufacturing plants. I could use them. \. Oh, just a short time ago--just a short time ago. \. And he had the carpet pulled out from under him, if you remember! \. No--that is correct--that is correct. And I hate censorship just as badly as you do, and I will protect you against that as far as I can. But the safety and welfare of the United States of America comes first with me. \. Well, I don't know about that. I don't know about that. What is it, May? 2  2 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. Yes-- \. Yes, yes. A free press is just as important as the Bill of Rights, and that is what is contained in the Bill of Rights. \. I am not so sure. We will have to wait and find out. If that is the case, why we will change it, as I said right here--[indicating the statement]. \. I don't know. I have had no experience. \. Well, where is Elmer Davis?  3  He can tell us about that.  3 Elmer Davis of the American Broadcasting Company, former Director of the Office of War Information.  Mr. Davis: Is there any program giving training in uniform standards for the security officers?  THE PRESIDENT. I hope there will--I hope there will be.  Joseph H. Short : Mr. President, that was provided, sir. There is training in uniform standards by the ICIS, and ICIS is going to review all of these classifications. \. He said that there was provided in the order a training program for these men, and for uniform standards, and that that training would be carefully supervised. \. Yes. \. Yes. Ninety-five percent of all our information has been revealed in the press in one way or another. \. That's right. That's correct. That's the answer.  4 Macon Reed, Jr., of the Transradio Press Service. \. There is no question about that, because they are very careful not to publish a lot of things that I say.  \. Air maps of the cities of the United States. \. If you will look back through the magazines, you will find--or the daily papers--the News here in Washington published an air map of the city of Washington and pointed out the key places in it. \. That is what I am worried about now. I am not trying to suppress information. I am trying to prevent us from being wiped out. \. I don't know where they came from. I only know what I saw in the paper. \. No. There's a lot of it I wouldn't disclose, but 95 percent of it has been made public. \. That is correct. \. That is absolutely correct. \. Ninety-five percent of our secret information has been disclosed. \. Well, maybe-- \. The Post-Dispatch and I are usually talking about two different things, Pete. 5    5 Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. That is the information I have from Central Intelligence. \. The military. \. Military and State. \. It takes into consideration all the things you mentioned. \. That's right. \. That's correct. \. That's right.  6 See Item 246. \. I think that is an example. \. I said I think that is an example. \. Of disclosing information that should not be disclosed. \. They exploded it. Of course they knew it!  \. Because we have got to find out what they are doing, so we will know what to do. \. That's right--that's right. That's right--that is exactly right. \. I didn't sign the order until I got it. \. I can't answer that. \. No, you're not, Smitty. 7  7 Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. \. They made the survey. \. They made a survey and supplied it to Central Intelligence. That is how it came about. \. They got it out of the newspapers and magazines and sent it down here, and Central Intelligence came to the conclusion that they knew that 95 percent of it was disclosed. \. Yes. Yes. \. Yes. They made the report to me. \. Yes. \. I think so, if they want to protect the country. \. That is what we are doing. I say, that is what we are doing, and that is what you are fussing about. \. They ought to think about the welfare of the country, just the same as I do, and I think most of them would, if they would stop and think about it. \. It's all right with me. \. I agree, but then I don't think that it should have been made available to the Russians. \. I am making no inferences at all. I made the announcement yesterday, the only one that I can make. \. All right. \. No, I am not. \. No, I am not. I am asking the editors and the publishers to take the same viewpoint of the safety of the United States that I take, and I am not asking them to ask anybody to help them do it. They ought to know. \. That is up to you. The safety of the country is in your hands just the same as it is in mine. \. I wouldn't say that.  \. Jim didn't get his information from me.  8 James F. Byrnes, Governor of South Carolina. \. I said Jim didn't get his information from me. \. I have no comment on that. \. No comment. \. No comment.  \. Of our secret information. That covers everything. \. Not just military, but State and everything--that's right.  \. No, I haven't. I haven't. I know nothing about it. 9  9 See Item 251[8].  \. Nothing. We have had him print things that would cause our men to be shot in the back, and nothing was done to them, right in the middle of the war.  \. I have no recollection of any such conference.  10 On October 1 Harold E. Stassen, president of the University of Pennsylvania, stated before the Subcommittee on Internal Security of the Senate Judiciary Committee that a White House conference had been held in October 1949 during which the proposal had been made to withdraw all aid from Chiang Kai-shek's government in China. See also Item 251 . \. No such recollection of any such conference.  \. That is a military question, and I can't answer it.  \. I can't answer that question, either.  \. I am not sure. I hope it hasn't.  \. Oh yes, it should. \. Joe wants me to make it perfectly clear that this order only applies to the officials of the United States Government. My comments, though, apply to everybody who gives away our state secrets.  \. No. Period! We are going to enforce the rules against people who are disobeying the law under meat control. \. Every agency of the Government will cooperate with them. \. Yes.  \. No relation whatever. The order was signed before we knew the bomb had gone off. \. Which one was that? I don't know what you are talking about ? \. Yes.\. Yes. \. Well, do you believe in saving the United States from becoming attacked ? \. Well, that is your opinion, and you are entitled to it. \. I am asking them to use good judgment for the safety of the United States. I am not asking for any censorship at all. \. That's right--or anybody else. \. Well, I don't know how you can, when I read some of the papers. But I am just telling you what I think, that patriotism is universal, and the welfare of the United States is the first thing we ought to think about. \. Did I? I don't remember it.  11  See Items 215, 224 . \. I don't remember.  \. No, there is not.  \. Well, I sent for him to offer to make him Ambassador to Japan, and he didn't think he should take the job because he thought he ought to try to save the Republican Party from going isolationist.   12 On October 4, the White House released the text of a letter from John Foster Dulles reporting on the conclusion of his mission as Special Representative to the President regarding the Japanese peace settlement. \. I certainly do.  \. They wanted to know what Mr. Dulles came to see me about. I sent for him--sent for Mr. Dulles--and told him that I would make him Ambassador to Japan if he wanted to be, and he said he couldn't take the job because he wanted to stay in civil life and try to save the Republican Party from isolationism! Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right. Note: President Truman's two hundred and eighty-first news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:40 a.m. on Thursday, October 4, 1951. 
