 Please be seated.  I have no special announcements to make. I will try to answer questions, however.    I don't know anything about the resolution. I can't comment on it until I do know what's in it. Officially it hasn't come to me.  1 H Res. 514 is printed in the Congressional Record .  2  for the joint statement of the President and Prime Minister Churchill relating to the Atlantic Command, see Item 16.   I will have to see the resolution before I can answer any questions in regard to it.    Well, I left out a good many countries that should have been mentioned. It was an accident and not intentional that the statement was made just the way it was. There are a lot of countries in addition to the ones I named.  3  Item 42.    It hasn't come to me yet, and he is not the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs.   --he is the Air member of the Joint Chiefs, but when the matter comes before me, then I will tell you what I am going to do. I can't comment on it today, I'm sorry.   No.    Go ahead.   That's right.   I am for a national presidential primary. That is my answer to that.   That would include the District, of course.    just as quickly as I find the man I think is fitted to fill it. Sometimes it takes a little delay to get around to those things to find the right man, but I will let you know in plenty of time whenever I am ready. 4 Federal judgeship in the Eastern District of South Carolina.    I haven't received any such invitation. Harriman ?  5  Paul fitzpatrick, Chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee.  6 W. Averell Harriman, Director for Mutual Security.   Oh, that was a general Democratic dinner. I didn't know it was especially for Averell Harriman, but of course I would like to attend. I don't know whether I can or not.    Why, certainly.  7  Earl Wayne Beck of Kansas City, Mo., who had been nominated to be Recorder of Deeds for the District of Columbia on January 22. The appointment was not approved, however, and on June 9 the President signed an act which provided for the appointment of the Recorder of Deeds by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia .   Certainly. He is as well qualified as any man that has ever held that job.    No, I haven't. I have been trying to find somebody, because the Governor has to go back to Florida and attend to some of his business. He has done a wonderful job since he has been here, and I have been trying to accommodate him, but I haven't succeeded in finding a successor as yet.   No, I don't think so. He wants to leave as promptly as he can. He has been here, I believe, more than a year longer than he agreed to stay when he first came up. 8   8  On November 7, the White House released the text of Millard Caldwell's resignation, to be effective November 15, 1952, and the President's letter of acceptance. His successor as Federal Civil Defense Administrator was Val Peterson. Mr. Caldwell formerly had served as Governor of Florida.    No, I can't.  9  General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, Supreme Allied Commander, Europe.    The only reason that those immunity powers were requested for Mr. Morris was to give him an opportunity to do a bang-up job. I have no comment to make on the action of the House Committee. They have been very anxious to have a bang-up job done, and I tried to give him the power necessary so he could do that sort of job. There wasn't any bug under the chip, or anything of the kind.  10 Newbold Morris, Special Assistant to the Attorney General. See also Items 35 , 36, 64 .   There was not any bug under the chip, or anything of the kind.   That's right.    Yes I do.   Well, when you are making an investigation before a grand jury-and this is a sort of grand jury--a man who comes in and testifies usually is promised immunity if it will point toward the conviction of some criminal. It is customary in all the approaches to investigations of that kind.   Mine. You don't have to blame anybody.    I think it will hamper him in doing a bang-up job.   We are going to give him every help we possibly can to do a good job. That is what we want. We haven't anything to cover up.    I am very happy that they voted to hold hearings on the St. Lawrence Seaway. They should hold those hearings. It is important and necessary that that project be built.  11  Senator Tom Connally of Texas, Chairman of the Senate foreign Relations Committee.    NO comment, Tony. 12   12  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.   Tony has a very adroit way of approaching these things. He always looks at me with that innocent, poor boy look, "now Mr. President, you ought to do something for me," and I almost feel like doing it.    All right, Tony, that's all right.   Well, I have an idea they heard the lecture that I gave this press conference, and they abided by it.   No, I haven't. They are always free agents when they go out of my office. I never try to gag anybody.    Go ahead.   I have no comment.  Are you out of "soap"?   All right.
