 I apologize for being late. I hardly ever am.  I have no announcements to make, but I will try to answer questions.  
 No, I haven't, but the bar association doesn't make Presidential appointments.  1 See Item 165 . 
 I have heard nothing about it.  
 They can't be resubmitted because they have been rejected. I have others under consideration. 
 No sir. I will let you know when the time comes. 
 I have a great many names under consideration, yes. 
 I haven't made up my mind yet.  
 I will answer that question at a little later date.  
 Jake was of the same frame of mind in 1948, if I remember correctly.   2  Jacob M. Arvey of Chicago, chairman of the Cook County Central Committee of the Democratic Party. 
 I think--I think Jake's a Democrat.  
 I have plenty of suggestions, but-- 
 No, because the committee will not meet until October 31st. I am not ready to make any suggestions. It may not be necessary for me to make them. 
 When I get ready to make the announcement on that, I will tell you about it. 
 The committee may come up with somebody that I will approve. 
 I have been studying the matter for a long time ever since Mr. Taylor resigned, and I find that nearly all the great nations are represented at the State of Vatican City, and I finally came to the conclusion that the cause of peace would be served by our having a representative at the Vatican City.  3 On October 20 the White House released the following statement by Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President: The President has decided that it is in the national interest for the United States to maintain diplomatic representation at the Vatican. He has therefore nominated Gen. Mark W. Clark to be Ambassador to the State of Vatican City. During the war, the late President Roosevelt appointed Mr. Myron Taylor as the Personal Representative of the President to His Holiness the Pope. During and after the war the Taylor mission performed an extremely useful service not only in the field of diplomacy but in the amelioration of human suffering. That service is set forth in official correspondence published from time to time. The President feels that the purposes of diplomacy and humanitarianism will be served by this appointment. It is well known that the Vatican is vigorously engaged in the struggle against communism. Direct diplomatic relations will assist in coordinating the effort to combat the Communist menace. Thirty-seven other nations have for a great many years maintained at the Vatican diplomatic representatives. 
 The only reason why that was done was because I wasn't ready to put it in before. 
 Because I wanted an Ambassador there. That is my choice. 
 That is my choice. 
 I say, that is my choice-nobody else's. 
 Certainly would not. 
 You hear all kinds of criticisms. I want to get it off--all off their chests, then we will argue it out.  
 What in the world is the interest of your paper in Rochambeau? I don't know anything about it. Haven't given it any thought or any study. Don't even know where he went!   
 I didn't say that. I said the committee would not meet until October 31st, and I have the matter under consideration. 
 That is possible. That is entirely possible.  
 India Edwards is perfectly capable of being chairman. She came over and told me, day before yesterday, that she did not want to be chairman.  4 Mrs. India Edwards, vice chairman, Democratic National Committee and director of the Women's Division. 
 No one else yet has had an opportunity. 
 Yes. A long time ago. I told him that if there might be a change, I would like to consider him. And he would not under any consideration want it.  5 John L. Sullivan of New Hampshire, former Secretary of the Navy. 
 What's that? 
 She came in and told me that she did not want to be chairman, and that a lot of people were pushing her for chairman, and she did not want the job. Does that make it clear? 
 That is correct, except-- 
 --she came in for the purpose of telling me that, except the long time ago conversation I have referred to. 
 Yes. 
 I had forgotten that. 
 Oh, when this conversation first started. 
 I can name you about 30 on which there have been trial balloons. I have no comment to make on any of them.  6 Michael V. DiSalle, Director of Price Stabilization, and former Governor of Ohio. 
 That's all right. You are perfectly at liberty to try. 
 He just came in to pay a personal call and to pay his respects.  7 Paul Fitzpatrick, chairman of the New York Democratic State Committee.  
 Yes, I am hopeful. They are making some progress. 
 I can't tell you anything further.  
 I have no comment to make on that.  
 I would, surely. I am never in favor of that. I believe in a two-party system.  
 I have no comment to make on that.  
 I have no comment on that.  
 He has been suggested. He is in the 30 I was telling you about.  8  Frank E. McKinney of Indianapolis became the chairman of the Democratic National Committee on October 31, 1951.  
 Oh, no. That newspaper has a right to do whatever it pleases, just as every other newspaper has. And they certainly picked a fine man for their candidate.  
 No. Not as much.  
 That is his privilege. I hope you saw Crockett's cartoon today. 10  9 General Mark Clark was in command of the 36th Division which suffered heavy casualties in Italy in World War II.  10 The cartoon by Gib Crockett, which appeared in the Washington Evening Star on October 25, 1951, depicted Senator Tom Connally of Texas pondering a gift-wrapped package which was marked "Clark appointment, To Tom, From Harry, Do not open 'til after Christmas." Senator Connally was Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee which was considering the President's nomination of General Clark to be U.S. Ambassador to the Vatican.  
 It was not discussed. 
 I can't comment on that. I told you about McKinney, but I think Paul is, yes, but he did not discuss it with me. Great long list, I can't remember them all. I did remember McKinney because so many people brought him up.  
 He didn't say that. 
 He is having it my way. He never made any such statement as that at all. Mark Clark is a good soldier. What's the matter, May? 11  11 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  Mrs. Craig. Well, sir--excuse me, but I understood that Clark said that he would not give up his military position?  THE PRESIDENT. When I talked to General Clark about the matter, I told him he would not have to give up his military status. 
 That was not his condition at all. He had nothing whatever to do with the situation. I would treat him exactly as I treat General Bradley and General Marshall and two or three others who have gone on missions for me 
 Well now, Smitty, 12  I think I have commented on that quite enough, and made it perfectly plain and dear. I don't care to say anything more about it.  12  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations.  
 I told you that I would answer that at a later date. I appreciate your persistence, and it's all right.  
 I don't believe you have. Reporter: Thank you. Note: President Truman's two hundred and eighty-fourth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4:05 p.m. on Thursday, October 26, 1951. 13 See Item 256. 
