  I want to announce the appointments in the permanent grade of General of the Army, under this new bill which just passed the Congress March 23, of General Marshall, General Douglas MacArthur, and General Eisenhower, and General Henry H. Arnold. Admiral Leahy, Admiral King, Admiral Nimitz, and Admiral Halsey; General Vandegrift, and Admiral Waesche--Watchee, however he pronounces that name.   And I am reappointing Claude L. Draper, of Wyoming, to be a member of the Federal Power Commission.   Claude L. Draper. He is a Republican member of the Federal Power Commission. His term expires, I think, about June. I am sending his name down, and--   He is a member of the Federal Power Commission. He is now on the Commission. A reappointment.   Wyoming. That's right.   Fleet Admirals. All four of them are Fleet Admirals. General Vandegrift is a four-star General.   He's Admiral--  --a four-star Admiral.   Four-star General.   Yes, the others are Fleet Admirals--Generals of the Armies.   Permanent grade for life, with all the salary and emoluments that have gone with it during the wartime.  And it creates for the President an elder statesmen organization for national defense. These men will not, under that increase, have to go into any advertising business, or go to work for any airplane companies, or anything else, for their support. That--for once, a Republic, I think, has been fair to the people who have taken it through one of the greatest emergencies in the history of the world. That's all that I have to announce    He certainly has, or he wouldn't be doing it.    They discussed every phase of the New York political situation, and I was very much interested, and was a very careful listener. They did discuss Senator Mead's candidacy for Governor of New York.   They said that he could be elected.   I didn't ask them that.    They have been making that for months, I think. The same answer is the same.    Go ahead.   That is correct. It's just as correct today as it was then. I was a listener to two able New York politicians.    I don't know a thing about it. The best way to do is to talk to Senator Mead. He is available.   I haven't talked to Speaker Rayburn on a spring recess, but the reason expressed in the release is exactly the reason why the atomic bomb plan was postponed.  1 On March 23 the Press Secretary to the president had announced that the tests scheduled for May 15 and July 1 would be delayed for about 6 weeks. The reason given for the delay was that a large number of Congressmen had expressed a desire to witness both tests but owing to the heavy legislative schedule would be prevented from doing so if the tests were held on the dates originally fixed.   No.  The best way is to discuss that with the leaders in Congress.   No, I haven't.   I haven't heard it. The first I've heard it. The reason was the one expressed in the release, and no other reason affected my postponing the test.    That is a matter that is being handled by the Labor Department, and I hope by the Governor of California-just as I told you last time it was brought up.    No, I haven't.    The--as I said the last time that this was brought up, the thing, if it became absolutely essential and the emergency was of a long enough duration that it would be necessary for us to go back to food rationing, I certainly would be in favor of doing it. But this is an emergency proposition, and the reimplementation of food rationing would take longer than the emergency is supposed to last. It is only supposed to last until the spring wheat crop can be gotten in.   Not for this emergency.    No, I don't remember. The best thing for you is to talk it over with them. I remember particularly that they did discuss Senator Mead.   I told you that I did not interfere in New York politics, outside of the State of Missouri.   I did not discuss that phase of the matter. When it comes up to me, I will discuss it.    It hasn't been discussed. Mr. Byrnes is in touch with me every day. He just phoned me a half hour ago on the situation.   He said that the matter would come up at 4 o'clock, and it would be discussed at the Security Council. I have no comment to make on what may happen.   The matter that was under discussion--whatever it was.   No. The matter that is under discussion at the Security Council, will come up at 4 o'clock, and we hope to settle it.    No. I have no comment to make. It hasn't been released yet.    Yes, I have had lots of responses from Congress. They are in favor of it, most of them.    I think he told Senator Connally that he would like to have it delayed, and I confirmed that statement to Senator Connally.   No, I don't. You had better ask Mr. Baruch.    You know, that tie seems to have caused more trouble than the speech itself. And as I said, I have had that necktie, I think, for 4 or 5 years, and have worn it on several occasions. I think I wore it at the Gridiron dinner, if I am not mistaken. No comment was made on it then, because you people were familiar with such a tie.   No   I think so, yes. It makes me very happy.    I haven't heard. I haven't heard about it.   No. It hasn't been discussed with me.    No. No, I haven't. I will announce it to you when I get ready.    I have no comment to make on that. Your guess is as good as mine.    Whatever it takes we will proceed to do, to get that program put through. That is one we are really behind, with everything we have.   No, there are not.    I am sorry, I didn't understand the question. Would you please repeat it for me?   I am hoping that South America will join us in sending food to Europe, and I am sure they will. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
