 I have no announcements to make this morning. If you have any questions you think I can answer, I will be glad to try to answer them.    That matter is in the hands of the Attorney General and the courts. I have no comment to make on that.   Why certainly. The Attorney General will do that. It is in his hands.   That's a "me too" proposition.  1 Representative Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota, Acting Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities.   A "me too" proposition.   The Department of Justice has had standing instructions on the whole thing, ever since it started.   It's what the Attorney General's duties are, to enforce the law.   No. Of course the Attorney General discussed the matter with me at various times, and he has of course had instructions to enforce the law.   That's what the people thought.   I do.   I certainly do. If they were in dead earnest, they would have taken this matter to the Attorney General and let him go ahead with the prosecution. They aren't prosecuting anybody, they are just making headlines.   That's not what the Attorney General said.   The Department of Justice will follow the law. It's in the hands of the Department of Justice and the courts, and that's where it will be, so far as I am concerned. I have no intention of getting into a controversy with this dead committee.    I think the evidence speaks for itself on that--in that line.   I think the Congress itself will take care of that when it meets after the first of January, so you had better ask the Speaker of the House what he intends to do about it.   Did the FBI have it for 9 years, do you know? Are you making that as a statement of fact? I want to know if you know that? I don't know--I say I don't know that that is a fact. I don't think you should enter into a controversy unless you know it is a fact.   I do not. I don't think you do, either.   I know nothing about it.  1  Adolf A. Berle, Jr., former Assistant Secretary of State.   Shoot.   That is a question you had better ask the Attorney General. He has instructions to go ahead and prosecute all the lawbreakers of that sort.    Not that I know of.  1  J. Waties Waring, U.S. district judge, Eastern District of South Carolina.    I can clear it up as it has always been cleared up; its status hasn't changed and will not change.  2  See Item 278 .   That's right.   There might be an objection from the President, and it rests in my desk.    Now that's a possibility I haven't considered. I know nothing about Senator Austin having any intention of resigning. You will have to find that out first.    I am trying my best not to have them returned. I have been working on that right along. I hope that they will not have to be returned.   I don't know. If it does, I will ask for it.    What case is that?  1  Ilse Koch, Nazi war criminal and wife of the commandant of Buchenwald concentration camp.   I don't know anything about it.   I knew nothing about it. That may have been asked for in my name, which the Secretary of Defense has a perfect right to do.    Well, as soon as the budget is ready, I will call you in and talk to you about it.   I can't answer that question. It's a slow process, getting the budget ready.    Not that I know of, not that I know of.   No, not yet. That probably will be at a later time.    I have no comment.  1  Paul G. Hoffman, Economic Cooperation Administrator.    I don't think I am going to be able to go. I would like very much to go, because I have been very much interested in the Government of Puerto Rico, and appointed the first native Governor, and I had hoped to be present at the inauguration of their first elected Governor; but Congress in all probability will meet on the 3d, and I don't think I can leave.    That is correct. I would like very much to see him go ahead with it.    I have no further comment to make on that.    It hasn't been brought to that point here, but I am anxious to see that project finished, and if it requires a recommendation in the budget, why I will have them put it in.    No I can't. Maybe he can. He asked for the interview.    That remains to be seen.   That's what she's coming in to see me for.    I don't know that I have any influence with her.  Have you asked her to give you a press conference? I said, have you asked her to give you a press conference?   All right, maybe you had better try that first.   I wasn't here.     General Marshall is getting along all right. I hear from him every day.    That is under consideration, and I will make an announcement on it later, as soon as I know exactly what I expect to do.    I certainly am. I pressed for it in every Message on the State of the Union I have ever sent to the Congress.    No comment.    No comment.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
