  First, I want to pay attention to a vicious statement that was made by a columnist in a New York gossip paper, in which he said I had made the statement to an editor of a New York paper here that the Jews in New York were disloyal. I had thought I wouldn't have to add another liar's star to that fellow's crown, but I will have to do it. That is just a lie out of the whole cloth. That is as emphatic as I can put it.  Now I am ready for questions.   Verbatim, if you like.   You know him as well as I do. I am not going to name him. Get the article out of the Daily Mirror in New York and read it.   Disloyal.   Jews. Jews in New York are disloyal, which is a lie out of the whole cloth. It makes good reading in a political year.    No, I am not.    It does not need expansion. The so-called doctrine is part of the foreign policy of the United States. It is preliminary to the European recovery program which is a part of the same program. If the European recovery program is carried out promptly, it will answer the purpose for which it was--the so-called doctrine was set up. It has been successful, however, in what it was intended to do to date.    It has been somewhat shaken, but I still believe that eventually we will get world peace. We must have it, because we can't afford to destroy the whole world in another world war.    Promptly--that's right. Promptly--that's correct.    No. I think he stated me clearly. Quoted me correctly.    I, Of course, was well aquainted with Mr. Masaryk, and feel very badly, and am very sorry that he is dead, and shall express my sympathy to his family. I cannot make any official statement on his death or its cause, because we have had no official comment on it. I think, though, that we should be careful, as General Marshall said, not to let any passions get the better of us until we know the facts.  1  Jan Masaryk, Foreign Minister of Czechoslovakia.    Congress never feels very happy when the Executive sends them bills and says "this is it." When I was in the Congress it was customary for the Congress to write its own bills. If they request me for suggestions, I will be glad to make them.    Is that the Governor of Alaska you are asking me about? I will make an announcement on that very shortly.    I haven't seen Secretary Anderson, and I expect to see him tomorrow at the Cabinet meeting, and I will comment on it then.   It would not. I hope Secretary Anderson stays in the Cabinet. He is a good Secretary of Agriculture, and has done an excellent job.    It is in preparation now, and I hope it will be ready for release very shortly. Just as soon as it is ready, it will be released.  1   1  The report on steel prices by the Council of Economic Advisers, dated March 10, 1948, was released by the White House on March 13.    I have not been approached for an appointment as yet. If he asks to see the President, of course I will be courteous to him.  2  Michael I, former King of Rumania.    No, I know nothing about such rumors. There has been no official approach to me on the subject.   The question was that there has been a revival of rumors that there would be a meeting between the Premier of Russia and myself. I said there is no foundation for any such rumors as I have not been approached on the subject at all.    I haven't heard anything about it.     I am not prepared to answer now. I have no comment to make on that question.    I don't know that that was ever the policy of this Government. If it was, it's news to me. The United States wanted--is already on friendly relations with the Government of China. It recognizes the Government of China. We have been trying to help the recognized Government of China to maintain peace in the Far East.    That will be a matter of judgment.   No, I can't tell you. I haven't got it ready yet. When I have it ready, I will give you a copy of it.1  1 See Item 53  119.]  I still stick to the statement. That statement is just as good today.  2 See 1945 volume, this series, Item 216.   The question was that in 1945 I did make the statement that I believed in the broadening of the base of the Chinese Government. That doesn't change my position a bit. I still do it that way.   It does not. It does not.    Social things.  1  Eamon de Valera, former Prime Minister of Ireland.   The welfare of the people of Ireland and the hope that he would have a very pleasant visit in the United States.    It did not include Communists at all.   In an endeavor to assist the Chiang Kai-shek government to meet the situation with which it was confronted.   It will not.   I don't think General Marshall intended to take any Communists into the Chinese Government. We don't want a Communist government in China, or anywhere else, if we can help it.  2 The statement by Gen. George C. Marshall, released to the press on January 7, 1947, is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .   Yes, that is possible.   The question was that maybe the questioners were using the word "Communist" in an entirely different sense than the one in which I am talking about it.   Let the questioners tell me the sense in which they were using it, and then I will explain it to you.   Chinese liberals. There is a very great difference between the liberal element in China and the Communists. The Chinese Communists are those people who believe in government from the top-the totalitarian state. There are a great many liberals in China. I talked to one of them just the day before yesterday. There are a great many of them who have been educated in this country, and they are the intelligentsia, really, of China. They are the people in whom we are interested principally. We would like to see them included in the broadening of the base of the Chinese Government.   Yes. That is a very good definition. Same difference exactly.   You're welcome.
