 Well, I am glad to see you. Some of you I haven't seen since the middle of September.   I have no announcements to make. If there are any questions, I will try to answer them.    Mr. Dewey is just mistaken, that's all. That seems to run with the name.    That report is not available.   Yes, yes. The Secretary of Defense took care of that in a statement that was made some time ago. 1   1 In an article in the December issue of the Atlantic Monthly magazine, Bradley Dewey, industrialist and former civilian member of the joint Chiefs of Staff Evaluation Board, demanded that the White House release the Board's report on the 1946 atomic weapons tests off Bikini Island in the Pacific. On November 27 the press reported that a spokesman for the National Military Establishment stated that Secretary of Defense Forrestal had recommended to the President that the final official report on the Bikini tests be withheld from the public for national security reasons.    That will be answered in the Message on the State of the Union, or the Budget Message, or a message on the economic situation. One of the three will answer that question. I can't answer it now. I haven't all the facts before me.   All right, I will try to speak out. If this keeps up, I will put in a loudspeaker in here.    I will answer that question in the Budget Message.    No, I have not.    I have on three different occasions made a statement on China policy. I have nothing further to say on it.  1 During the month of November 1948 the press reported that the Chinese Nationalist Government had suffered several defeats at the hands of the Communist forces who had launched an offensive at the heart of the Government's position in the Yangtze Valley. On November 30 Chiang Kai-shek assumed personal command of the defense of the capital city of Nanking, and on December 2 the Communists moved into Suchow which had been evacuated by the Government forces.   Nothing further to say.   Yes, the time has been set.   No. I will let you know when she comes in.   Why sure. That's the first thing she asked for when she got into town.    That's a matter for the House of Representatives to answer, not for me.    I said nothing about it. But I don't want the Dixiecrat vote. We won without New York and without the solid South, and I am proud of that.    I have not.    Yes, it is a little early. I will announce it when the time comes.    I will attend to that when it comes up.    Yes, and the day before, and the day before that.   Yes, and at my request. I was discussing a matter with him, the same as I have with President Hoover.   No, just a discussion of the Commission 1 on which they are both working.  1 Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government.    Mr. Forrestal has been asked to stay.   Mr. Marshall has been asked to stay.   You will have to ask them.    Yes, I have. I would like very much to go. I don't know whether I can or not because our Congress meets the next day.    Yes, they have.   They are perfectly willing to stay.   Secretary Krug has been asked to stay.   There will be no changes in the Cabinet at this time. I think that will answer all those questions.    I hadn't heard about it, officially or otherwise.    Don't you remember back in 1945 you kept asking me these questions-you asked me these questions, and the situation adjusted itself. The situation will adjust itself as we go along. You will be informed whenever any changes take place, if, as, and when they do.   They have.   Yes.   No. No one in top-level Government is ever hired for a stated time. It is at the pleasure of the President.   Yes.  Yes-if, as, and when.    I know nothing about that. I am glad to hear that, but I didn't know it.   I know nothing about it.   Because it's a nice rumor that gives some of you columnists a chance to write another story.    I haven't gone into that at all. We will attend to that when it comes here.    Did business have anything to fear the last three years and a half?    Nothing.    Not lately!  It's hard to find at any time. But I haven't read any lately that were true.    That is a typical columnist comment, and I have no comment to make on it.  1  Pseudonym of John Franklin Carter, Jr., author and radio commentator.   That's all right. You got an answer!     I have said all I need to say on that subject.    I don't think there's any need to fear that situation at all, not so long as I am President.   He said it is rumored that we are going to turn German industry back to the German cartels, the ones that in the last war tried to help us lose the war. If you remember, I made an investigation of that myself. So long as I am President, the German cartels will never come back to life.    I certainly do. I have already made an engagement with her to receive her.    No, he was discussing his budget with me.  1  William McC. Martin, Jr., Chairman, Export-Import Bank of Washington.   None. None whatever.    Well, you all seem to know more about it than I do. I am going to have a message ready on it, though. It will be the kind of budget that I want, and no other kind.   I will answer that when the budget comes out.    Yes, I saw that. He has been wrong--that fellow has been wrong about everything, so I don't think it's worth any consideration.   Well, you know very well that there is no reason in the world why anybody who feels the urge can't go and talk to a committee on any subject he feels like talking about. That was the case when I was in the Senate. But these paid lobbyists are another thing, and I am against them.    If you go back and look at the record of the Truman committee, you will get the answer to that question.    No, he did not.  1 Paul v. McNutt, former United States High Commissioner to the Philippines.    I will attend to that in the messages later on.    I have no comment on that.    Well, I have been discussing the matter with the Attorney General. That's the best answer I can give you.    That's right.   Nobody. I have got nobody to forgive. Go ahead and finish your question.   I don't think the word was forgive. I think I said that I wasn't angry with anybody.   It applies to everybody.  Mrs. May Craig : Mr. President, I am anxious to know if there is anybody you are not forgiving?   I don't know that there is anybody I have anything to forgive, except for Maine not going Democratic.     No. Period.   I have no comment to make on that. I am not answering questions on China today.    Well, that's a different matter. We probably wouldn't call these people lobbyists. We would call them citizens appearing in the public interest.  Of course I am not going to ask for anything that is not in the interests of the whole people.    I have no comment to make on that.    I certainly shall.    Well, if you remember, Mr. Ickes tried his best to kill that column, but it was a little late, so I don't think that should be brought into the discussion at all.   1 Harold L. Ickes, former Secretary of the Interior.    Yes. Canada and the United States ought to attend to that job.    I have no comment.    That's correct--which he had a perfect right to do--and I have no comment on that question.    Oh--everybody in the Democratic setup did everything he possibly could to help win the election; and as soon as the people got the facts, they voted right. They couldn't get the facts from your columns and things, so I had to go out and tell them.   Yes, of course.   I know you don't.   Farmers, and labor, and Senator Barkley, Secretary of Agriculture, and Secretary of Labor--and I could name a whole list of them who made a great contribution to the winning.   I think he was the greatest asset I had.   Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
