  This Budget is set out in more detail, and the introduction is the most comprehensive one that we have put out since I have been President. I hope every one of you have carefully read the first 71 pages in the large, condensed Budget, and if you have you won't need to ask any questions. That very specifically sets out just exactly what the budget provides, and while there isn't very much to be said in addition to what is said in that 71 pages, so if you ask too many questions, I am going to suggest that you start in and read those 71 pages. You all should have had it digested.   What we are over here for is, of course, to answer any questions that we possibly can in connection with the income and expenditures of the Government.  I never had as much difficulty in the 14 years I have had connection with a budget as I have had with getting this one ready, on account of conditions over which I really had no control. Conditions have created a situation where we had to--for the last year, the budget for 1948--increase the expenditures; and we had to--in the 1949 budget which is being worked out now--we had to increase expenditures due to circumstances that were necessary in foreign affairs for us to meet.  You will find, however, that the budget is an exceedingly tight one, and that we almost reached the point where expenditures would not exceed the income.  The budget of 1945 and 1946--from June 1945 to June 1946--if you remember, called for about $103 billion. Due to the end of the war, we were able to rescind about $60 or $65 billion of that. And then in the next year's budget--1947--June 1946-1947--we managed to come so close to a balance that we finally wound up in pretty good shape. And in the 1947-1948 budget, we had an $8 billion surplus, and expenditures by that time had been reduced from something over $50 billion in 1945-1946 to a little over $33 billion in that year.  And then our foreign affairs caused us to have to increase the expenditures for last year, and that is a continuing charge in the 1949-1950 and 1951 budgets. And that accounts for our present situation, along with that rich man's tax bill, which I vetoed three times.  We are asking this time for the restoration of $4 billion in revenue so that we can continue to make payments on the national debt. And we are asking also that the fake transfer of $3 billion from the 1948-49 budget be rescinded and that the surplus be applied to the national debt, as it should be.  You will find all these things set out in the budget very clearly in that first 71 pages, and I hope--as I say--that every one of you, if you haven't read that first 71 pages will read that carefully, because you can't fail to understand what is meant by the figures if you read that first 71 pages.  Now we will try to answer questions.  
 Four billion is asked for, for new taxes. 
 Probably it ought to be there. It should have been there 5 years ago. They keep postponing it until that fund is going to be insolvent, but that is an asset. That is for the purpose of making those funds solvent, as the law provides for. 
 Considered as a tax. 
 It is, but it isn't an expenditure. 
 Why yes, if you want to add those payroll taxes to it you can, but the tax that I am asking for is $4 billion--to pay some on the national debt. That doesn't have anything to do with the operation of the Government.  
 That's right.  
 It is going to be set out in the medical message. You will find the figures in there, if you look hard enough.  Secretary Snyder: Mr. President, so that there wouldn't be any--just let Mr. Lawton speak on this medical situation.  THE PRESIDENT. All right--wait a minute-Secretary of the Treasury wants to clear up something.  Secretary Snyder: The President mentioned he canceled that $3 billion transfer from 1947 to 1948. That will--we have already applied that in reduction of the debt, so there will not be a further reduction of the debt.  THE PRESIDENT. No.  Secretary Snyder: But it will be a permanent reduction.  THE PRESIDENT. Permanent reduction, that's right. All right--you tell them about that health. 
 I can't answer that question.  Director Webb: Half of one percent. 
 Just like social security did. A figure of $260 million is the estimate. 
 That is up to the Congress to decide that. All those details will be set out in the message which I am going to send Congress on the subject, and that message will go down in about 5 or 10 days. 
 No. 
 That is the additional half of one percent. It is the additional half of one percent to keep that social security fund solvent. This tax increase should have been automatic each year, but every time it came up to pass a resolution in the Senate, none was appropriated, so we have known that that fund was piling up. That tax should be levied every year. I sincerely hope that they will not do that same thing this year, because I want to see that fund actually get solvent so that there won't be any danger of our having to make appropriations from current revenue to meet that situation when it comes about.  
 Less than the 4 billion.  1 Page references in parentheses, throughout this news conference, indicate where the subjects referred to may be found in the Budget Message as printed herein ; all other references correspond to the page numbers in the Budget as published in House Document 17 . 
 About a billion. About 2 billion. 
 See the next point, when you come to military aid to Europe. 
 That's right, because there is no way to make an estimate on it. 
 No, not yet. It isn't anywhere near the estimate stage yet, because it requires a lot of maneuvering yet to arrive at; a position where we would be in any position internationally to do anything of the kind, I haven't made. 
 I can't answer that question. 
 It will, eventually, and if it works out in this fiscal year.  
 The 1950 estimate is-if the increase is made--a possibility of collecting 2 billion in additional taxes in 1950. That depends altogether on what the Ways and Means Committee does in the House, and I can't tell them what to do. They are, by the Constitution, the tax authority.  
 215 billions. 
 That's right. 
 Yes.  Secretary Snyder: Using it for--in the adjustment of 1949 for the projection of 1950. 
 $2 billion greater. 
 The trust fund figure is never added in the budget. The thing that is used in the budget is the refund. They never should be in the budget because they are overpayments.  Secretary Snyder: We have here a release that explains that. If anybody didn't see that release some weeks ago, we have it here for you, and I have another statement showing deductions from the receipts--shows a net receipts estimate.  THE PRESIDENT. That's the idea.  
 I can't discuss that situation at all. All that can be said is in the Budget Message. 
 It certainly would. 
 Sure. 
 Oh no.  Secretary Snyder: Not the trust fund.  THE PRESIDENT. Not the trust fund, the surplus. 
 The surplus that was 
 $3 billion. It has already been applied on the national debt. 
 Yes.  Secretary Snyder: With receipts over expenditures, we can certainly pay that on the debt, even if we have to borrow that back in order to keep interest 'payments down. So we had already actually gone ahead and applied it on reduction of the debt. It shows the 'permanent reduction in 1947 instead of 1948. 
 That is correct. 
 That is correct.  Secretary Snyder: No, no--it would not affect the total of the debt a bit.  THE PRESIDENT. No, it wouldn't. It's a matter of bookkeeping.  Secretary Snyder: It was set up as a bookkeeping device. We want to get it back like it always had been, don't you see.  THE PRESIDENT. It doesn't make any difference in the total national debt at all. 
 Nothing. 
 Whatever the surplus would be. If you take the budget, add $2 billion to whatever income is set out in the budget, and subtract the deficit from that, that is what will be applied on the debt. 
 If there is any military aid. 
 No, it is not. 
 Yes. 
 The matter cannot be discussed.  
 Yes. 
 A million dollars from the President's fund--for purposes of that sort.  
 Well now, I tried to explain here one time the difference between the cash expenditures in the budget and the appropriations, and that's what that amounts to.  Director Webb: The trend is up.  THE PRESIDENT. And that means the trend is up. There is a difference now. The cash outlay for 1950 will be what it says here-$38 billion, but the appropriations will authorize expenditures up to 44, part of which will be paid in 1951 and 1952, in all likelihood. 
 It should not. It should be called a budget at the figure set out right there.  
 I will cross that bridge when I get to it and tell you all about it.  
 Page what? 
 Entry on both sides of the budget. It did not affect the final figure--it was a debit and a credit both. 
 No, no.  Director Webb: If you look on page 2 of the press release, you will find what we do and which will indicate to you the kind of items that are affected.  THE PRESIDENT. Have you got one of those? 
 That is correct--that is correct. The old figures are adjusted to meet the same situation, so there is no fake comparison there at all. 
 That's right, we went back 5 years in this release here. 
 Of course, if you go beyond that, you would have to adjust the old figures, just as we have adjusted this in this 5 years.  Secretary Snyder: We selected this year to make this adjustment in accounting. The Treasury Department, the Budget, and the General Accounting Office all worked over it here, to try to unify the accounting system of the Government. This is one of the steps--continuing steps or simplification of our daily statement. We chose this particular year as the ideal year to do it, because we could do it with less complications this particular year than any other year; and there is no idea--the President has no idea of using it to show a reduction in the budget, or anything of the sort, because he frankly tells you that the other side was a reduction identically the same.  THE PRESIDENT. If you read page 1399 in this green book, it is all set out for 10 years and adjusted.  
 No, it would not. It allows as many airplanes as they originally wanted for the 7D-group air force, but that almost doubled the group--that's what the difference is. We anticipated a question like that, so I have got some facts together for you.   "The number of groups is a somewhat misleading measure of air power since the character, size, number of aircraft, and other elements of the groups are not fixed but constantly change as conditions require. The size of the Air Force is better indicated by the number and size of aircraft rather than by the number of groups. The number of first and second line aircraft I have recommended for the Air Force for the fiscal year 1950 is 9,200. As you will note from my message, this budget represents a better balance between the various components of military strength than we have had in the past. To provide in the next budget a still better use of our military dollars, I am planning to recommend substantial improvements in the organization of the National Military Establishment. The funds provided by Congress for the Air Force in fiscal year 1949 were intended to provide an increase in the number of first and second line aircraft to 10,297 by June 30, 1949. The Air Force has reduced this number by 700 training planes as a result of revised training requirements. The approximately 400 other planes to be dropped are largely Army support planes which were planned for tactical purposes.  "Also it should be borne in mind that the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard will grow in strength in 1950. In the Air National Guard it is contemplated that strength will increase from 35,000 at present to 49,500 by July 1, 1950."  Actually there is a tremendous increase. 
 No, no. 
 No. We are trying to get an integrated defense system without playing favorites either with the Navy or the Army or the Marine Corps. I will have a message on that at a later date.  
 15.9. 
 That is correct--that is correct. Stockpiling UMT.  
 It will be gone into in detail in a message on that subject. I will have that message ready in a few days, and it will be set out very clearly. 
 No, that is an entirely different one. I am going to have message after message. I am going to keep you busy from now on!   
 I can't tell about that. It depends on what conditions are at that time. I had hoped it would be through by that time.  
 No, I can't. I will send them as they are needed.  
 Not quite. You never can satisfy them. I have to put my foot down and tell them what they can have. If you didn't do that, they would take all the money in the budget. 
 One. There is one, and that's the cost of it. 
 Yes, it has been started.  
 No, no, I don't think so. What is that, John?  Secretary Snyder: That is the total figure.  THE PRESIDENT. The total figure is right there.  Secretary Snyder: That is why I was so cautious about using that word "trust fund." That $3 billion transfer was called in the legislative act a trust fund. That has no bearing on the trust funds that are set up for the various .governmental funds. 
 Tax refunds are deducted from the receipts.  Secretary Snyder: That is the estimated tax refunds that will be probably paid back for overpayment of taxes, and does not involve trust funds.  THE PRESIDENT. Doesn't involve the question of trust funds at all.  Director Webb: This is cash receipts to and from the public, as set out on page 123.  THE PRESIDENT. It has been called to my attention that if you turn to page A123 in the Green Book, you will find it all set out in detail.  
 No--I don't know--it would not. I am asking for $4 billion in new taxes, and the adjustment will have to be made so that it will be $4 billion, if I get what I want. 
 That's right.  
 Yes. That is a flood control proposition entirely with the whole Mississippi Valley. 
 No. 
 You know all about it as well as I do. Ten of those are drainage projects in the Missouri, and 9 of them I got--9 of them including Missouri. 
 No. No, that is not true at all. I expect to make recommendations on several of those projects. In fact, I have made a recommendation in the Message on the State of the Union. I didn't specifically name the projects, for the simple reason that there are two or three projects, that are in a situation where we can go right to work on them. But I don't want to make that recommendation until this Budget Message and the Economic Message and this Message on the State of the Union have been digested, and then I will take care of that. 
 I think that is correct, but that doesn't mean we must go slow in an effort to get them. 
 That's right. At any rate, get the thing started. I am particularly interested in the St. Lawrence Seaway.  
 No, no. It hasn't been worked out. You can do that yourself-just get last year's budget, and this one, and the year before--you won't have much trouble.   
 What was that? Director Webb: M28. 
 Yes. 
 You can take it for that, if you like. I have said in previous instances that those things should come under the normal business of the Government. The boys here prepared a statement which goes into detail, and I will read it to you, if you like.   "We should not continue to expand benefits to this group, regardless of other benefits to which they may be entitled, through existing or expanded social security programs. Veterans have the same opportunity as nonveterans to accumulate benefit rights under the social security programs. It is undesirable to have a duplicate or dual system of benefits, and as the message points out, veterans and their families will soon be two-fifths of the total population. Therefore, any proposal to extend the present benefits available to veterans who do not have service-connected disabilities should be considered only in relation to other available benefits ."  What we are trying to do is make the social security system so good that nobody will want any special benefits.  
 Yes, $100 million. 
 It does not. It does not. 
 No. The keel has been laid down in Norfolk navy yard.  
 123? That's the one about cash income and outgo, isn't it? 
 What about it? 
 Yes, it does, the experts say. 
 That depends on what action the Congress takes. These are estimated figures. 
 If this budget is carried out, that is true. That is what we are trying to do.  
 I don't think there will be any increase in cost in that case. There will be an increase in dignity and title is all.  
 It so states in the budget that it will be, if you will read that section. 
 Just about. 
 I can't answer that question definitely. They will try with everything they have to get in shape so that they can meet those things as they come up. The bookkeeping over at Veterans Administration has had to be completely overhauled. As soon as they get that job done, that payment is due and payable, and it should be. That is the only reason it is being paid out. 
 Yes. 
 It's in 1950.  
 That is correct--that is correct.  
 Yes, I think newspapers and magazines ought to pay for their advertising they send through the mails, if that is what you want to know. They ought to pay what it costs.  I don't see why they should be subsidized any more than anybody else. 
 They should be in the same boat. 
 Small papers. I have always advocated that, Pete, 2  ever since I came to the Senate. It is just good business and good sense. There isn't any reason why we should have a subsidy of those things at all. Some of them wouldn't be so thick if they had to pay what it costs to go through the mails--we wouldn't have to go through so many pages of advertising to read the news.  2  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
 Oh no, not that. I want the cost of transportation of these things to be paid. 
 I don't know about that. I never ran a paper in my life, so I don't know how they handle those things, but I think that a postal deficit should not exist, and the things that cause the deficit should pay the deficit. That is what I am trying to get at. If you read the paragraph on M56 , I think it clears it up pretty thoroughly. 
 Well, you don't mean to tell me that they need a subsidy in order to operate, do you? 
 I don't think the papers do.  This is a controversial matter. I am taking a stand on it. As I have just said, I don't think that a Post Office deficit ought to be in the nature of a subsidy. I am making it as plain as I can.  
 That's right. 
 Legislation necessary to make it clear on the leasing of those lands, and it should be done for the protection of the 'people. There is an authority now under which it can be operated, but I don't think it's a clear authority, and I think the Congress ought to clear it up, so as to make it perfectly plain as to how we can develop those resources in the interest of the public. 
 The whole thing. 
 The whole thing.  
 No, I don't think there is, the Budget Director says. It would be rather interesting to see, I think. 
 That is a matter for the Congress to work out. I can't tell them exactly all the details. I am in favor of farm parity and always have been, ever since I have been in the Congress, and it ought to be worked out so that it is a fair deal for everybody, including the consumer and the fellow that raises the crops. 
 I do. 
 I say it should be revised. Don't put words in my mouth, Pete. 
 I haven't given the matter thought. That is a matter for the Congress to work out. If they like it, I will sign it. 
 No. It is based on crop estimates. It is based on the crop estimate, putting into effect the quotas where there is a great surplus of the crop. You read the book on that. I am not going to give you a lecture on that this morning.  
 No, I don't think it has been worked out in detail, but it should be worked out. The Classification Act should be worked out on a basis of fairness to the people who work under the Classification Act. Some of them are grossly underpaid, and they are not in line with other people who draw a salary from the Government elsewhere.  
 That is correct. 
 No. When I say only $2 billion of it can be collected in 1950, you can't get ready for the collection until the budget year will be half gone. That's what the difficulty is. We hope to get a tax arrangement that will bring us in an additional $4 billion. The most we can expect to get out of that in 1950 would be 2 billion. That is just a fiscal matter. 
 The Message on the State of the Union states where I stand on that. 
 It applies each year to individuals. The half of the fiscal year would apply to individuals because it would be applied-- 
 It is due to the fiscal situation--June 30th would be assumed until the thing would go in. 
 No. That is a different thing entirely. 
 That is about the only one that is missing. But it does not reflect the additional corporation and personal income taxes. 
 All right. 
 The budget year 1950. 
 The last half of it, yes, if the Congress enacts it. That is a 1950 budget. 
 That is up to the Congress. I can't go into detail. The Ways and Means Committee are going to write this tax bill--whatever they put in it. We have made an estimate that we will probably get $2 billion. If we get the tax bill, that in the long run will give us $4 billion. It is an estimate entirely.  Secretary Snyder: Mr. President, may I just say one word there? That $2 billion is not a sacred figure.  The--it isn't anything to laugh about--the President asked for 4 billion increase in taxes. We will have to just consider that some tax increase would come in the calendar year 1950. Now it may be, if the Congress should happen to work on personal income taxes, or something of that sort, part of that--half of it would move over into the 1950 budget. But just for ease of purpose, half of it is estimated to fall within the fiscal year 1950. Now, it might go up or down, either way, so far as half of it is concerned, see?  THE PRESIDENT. It is merely a guess. It is merely a guess. 
 That's right.  Secretary Snyder: For the fiscal year 1950 we are just assuming we would collect half the recommended tax increase. That could vary with the tax bill that Congress finally imposes. 
 On July 1, 1949.  Director Webb: July 1, 1949. 
 Depends altogether on the attitude of the Congress and whether they want a deficit or not. 
 I didn't make any such recommendation. I asked for the money, and told them what the condition of the budget is. Now it's up to Congress to take advantage of the situation and do what they see fit. 
 You just can do all the speculating you want on that. I am going to wait until I see the bill. I can't tell you what will happen. We have made an estimate on what we hope will happen. 
 I don't think we can arrive at that point in 1949. We are hoping to in 1950. 
 It .might be in 1949  Secretary Snyder: Fiscal 1950, part of that could be applied.  THE PRESIDENT. That is correct. 
 July 1st--July 1st.  Director Webb: 1949.  THE PRESIDENT. That's right.  Director Webb: But it is not included in the budget figures at all.  THE PRESIDENT. It isn't included in the budget figures at all. That is not included in the budget. If we get it, why we will be able, I think, not to have a deficit; if we don't have it, we will have a deficit. 
 I have no argument with the Congress on how they are going to do it. I have asked them to do it.  
 Yes, the Secretary of the Treasury can answer that for you.  Secretary Snyder: The corporate earnings were higher than were anticipated, and there was an increase in the individual incomes in the latter part there that were not anticipated.  
 I am not familiar with that bill.  Director Webb: The Attorney General has a bill down before Congress now.  THE PRESIDENT. The Budget Director says the Attorney General has a bill down before the Congress now. I have not gone into it in detail. I never do that until it comes before me for consideration.  
 That is the reason we made it a $2 billion estimate. That is the reason for the $2 billion estimate. 
 It is not separated. 
 No, We haven't got it.  Secretary Snyder: We could probably get it up for you, the actual effect of it. 
 You were instructed to turn it into the Republican campaign fund.   
 Yes--well, that's in the overall total of the tax program.  Secretary Snyder: That is not a large amount, with the volume of business we are doing now, see?  THE PRESIDENT. We have been hoping that international business will increase and we will make more money.  Secretary Snyder: Some of them go down and some of them go up. 
 No.  Secretary Snyder: The excise collection area goes up and down. Sugar will sell high one time and then it will drop off. Then costume jewelry will go up--perfume, and things of that sort; they vary with the different years. We hope that by holding to present levels of income that there will be an increased sale of those things.  Mr. Lawton: The details are on A12-start with page A12, you will find excise taxes all set out.  THE PRESIDENT. Is that 12A? A12, the experts say, the detail is all set out.  
 Interest on the long-time obligations is 2 1/4, 2 1/2.  Secretary Snyder: On short term it is less than 1 percent. And on trust funds, that raises the general average, of course, of the cost of the interest charge--runs around 2.1.  
 That includes the recommendations.  
 None that I know of. We have got everything here but the kitchen stove.  
 They always are and should be.  Secretary Snyder: These are based on the very latest reports from Commerce, and we are hoping to sustain that base throughout this coming year.  
 Yes there is. 
 That includes the increased taxes I have asked. 
 They are already specified in this message here. 
 They are specified right here in this message. If you read that 71 pages, you will find that clearly set out. Turn to page M11  and read it.  
 No. 
 No. I canceled $65 billion in 1945. 
 No. 
 These are authorized by the Congress, but I don't think you will have very many where any department feels that they cannot use all of the authorization when they had it, unless there was a cancellation by the President.  
 Not health insurance. Health insurance is not in here. Social security increases, that is included in this budget. There is no estimate now in this budget on the health budget. I am told all the money--the Director says--is included. 
 That's the trust fund, you see. That goes just like the other. 
 It's 1/4 percent--it will come in the message. I will tell you all about it in the message. About 1/4 percent. 
 Yes, 1/2 percent of the total payroll. 
 Yes, that's right.  
 That is in the regular appropriation. 
 That is a trust fund, that 5.2 is--5 billion, 2.  
 It includes the public debt as it stands now, and those applications are made monthly. If there is any surplus in income, usually refinancing takes place every month or so. They just don't borrow more money when they have cash in the Treasury. 
 It does not, because there is a deficit anticipated in both those years. 
 Yes.  Secretary Snyder: Congress will have to do it.  THE PRESIDENT. Congress will have to do it. 
 It was an operating deficit. 
 Have you got any good telephone numbers to give?   Director Webb: Yes sir, we have; 421 at the Budget. Somebody will be there over the weekend to help you.  THE PRESIDENT. I don't know whether he has got any more good telephone numbers or not.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  Director Webb: Wait just one moment! We want to settle one thing.   THE PRESIDENT. On the reference to raising rates of second-class postal matters, the Postmaster General will have a bill which represents the views on this matter. I have not specified a position on the free delivery situation because I wasn't familiar with it, and I don't think you ought to quote me on that until you see the message, then that will set the thing up. We will make a mimeographed copy of that explaining statement, if you want it, and it will be ready later in the day. And any other information that we can furnish, you are perfectly at liberty to ask for it, and if I can get it to you, I will be glad to do so; and if we can't, all these experts can. 
 It would have been some other day this time except for the situation as it developed. You see, the Budget Message happened to come on Monday this time. If it comes on some other weekday, why we will have the Seminar the day before. 
 Well, I hope you haven't wasted too much time. 
