  Gentlemen, before we start, I have a brief statement I want to make to you.   "At the outset, I do not intend to answer any questions pertaining to the testimony that has been given before Senator Hoey's subcommittee. General Vaughan already said that he will go before the committee and make a full statement on all matters with which his name has been connected, and I suggest to you, as the chairman of the committee has done, that you gentlemen and your editors in common fairness suspend judgment on General Vaughan until he has been heard by the committee." 1   1 On August 13, the White House released a statement by Maj. Gen. Harry H. Vaughan in which he explained that he had refrained from making any statement concerning the investigation being conducted by the subcommittee under the chairmanship of Senator Hoey, because he had informed the Committee that he would appear as a witness at the proper time and make a full statement regarding all the matters with which his name had been connected. But due to recent reports involving the names of prominent persons he thought it best to make a public statement. In the release Vaughan stated:  "In 1945 I had a talk with two old friends of mine--Mr. Harry Hoffman and Mr. David Bennett. The subject of deep-freeze units came up, and I said that I would like to have one for my house and that I would also like to send one to the Little White House in Independence. Mr. Hoffman said that he was associated with a concern that was beginning to manufacture deep-freeze units, and that he thought he could get hold of some factory rejects. He asked me whether, if he found that he could obtain some of these units, I would want some for some of my associates.  "Later Mr. Hoffman informed me that he could obtain some deep-freeze units that did not have commercial market value, as they were experimental models. At that time I informed him that I would like to have him send one to me and one to the White House in Washington for the lunch room used by members of the staff. Also, I asked him to send one to the Little White House in Independence, Missouri, and to send offer units to Mr. Fred Vinson, Mr. John Snyder, Mr. James K. Vardaman and Mr. Matthew J. Connelly. I had previously told them that I was going to get some deep-freeze units and that I would like each of them to have one.  "It is my recollection that the persons to whom the units were sent were not acquainted with either Mr. Hoffman or Mr. Bennett. They may have asked me later from whom I obtained the units and some acknowledgment of the receipt of the units may have been made to these men, or to either of  "The simple explanation of the entire matter is that Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Bennett desired to extend this courtesy to me as a friend, and I in turn made gifts of these units to certain friends of mine."  The hearings held by Senator Hoey's subcommittee are cited in a note to Item 161 .  Now, if you have any questions on any other subject, I will answer them. 
 No. It will not be mimeographed. That is a statement from me directly to you. 
 Well--[reading]--"At the outset-- 
 "I want to say to you that I do not intend to answer any questions pertaining to the testimony that has been given before Senator Hoey's subcommittee.  The principal reason for that is all these committees have been--all these committee hearings have been behind closed doors, and everything that has come out has been leaks.   "General Vaughan has already said that he will go before the committee and make a full statement on all the matters with which his name has been connected-- 
 That's right. Then, of course, that will be a field day. That won't be behind closed doors, you can rest assured on that.  "I suggest, as the chairman of the committee has done-- 
 What's the matter with you, Tony, 2  did you have a bad night?   2  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
--"matters with which his name has been connected."  Are you fixed now, Tony? 
 "I suggest, as the chairman of the committee has done, that you gentlemen and your editors-- 
--in common fairness--  3  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 And May--and all the rest of the ladies--[ laughter ]--"in common fairness suspend judgment on General Vaughan until he has been heard by the committee." 
 That is what I have been informed. 
 Most of them have been behind closed doors, particularly if they were friendly to Vaughan. 
 Particularly if they were friendly to Vaughan. 
 Sure, Fire away.  
 Admiral Hillenkoetter is an appointee of mine, and when he is replaced it will be announced here. I have no one under consideration to take his place, and he will not be replaced. That is about as emphatic as I can make it.  4  Rear Adm. Roscoe H. Hillenkoetter, Director, Central Intelligence Agency.  
 I couldn't hear you? 
 He is available whenever he is needed. He is on that tour at my suggestion.  
 The only comment that I have to make is that the Congress did not appropriate enough money to enforce the rent control law, and all the Expediter can do is to use as much money as the Congress gave him. That's the only thing--that's all the trouble. We suggested to the Congress that they give him more money. There was more money in the budget for that purpose.  
 I think Dean Acheson covered that thoroughly yesterday; and it was done--his statement was made after consultation with me. 5   5 See Department of State Bulletin, vol. 21, pp. 312-313.  
 They are still under contemplation-under consideration. I don't know whether actually they have been resumed or not. 
 What? 
 Yes Ma'am, I did. 
 No comment.  
 If Senator George will find a source of revenue to keep the Government running, why then I have no objection to his reorganization of the tax structure. But the Government must have revenue to run. There has been a lot of yelling now about deficit financing, but so long as 80 percent of the budget is a fixed charge, and that budget has to run on that fixed charge, we have got to find the money to run it.  
 When I am ready, I will answer that question. I don't want to answer it this morning.  
 The National Democratic Committee is in control of its membership, and it is made up of Democrats.  
 No comment.  
 The National Security Council studied the situation as it affects Yugoslavia, and made a recommendation to me that this blooming mill be sent to them; and I ordered it sent. 6   6 The press reported that the President had authorized the sale of a $3 million steel-finishing mill to Yugoslavia.  
 No further comment. 
 Draw your own conclusions.  
 No comment. The American Ambassador reported fully to me about his call; and it was the usual call that an Ambassador makes on the head of a state.  
 That's all right, Miss May. I am glad you covered them.  You ought to know more about it than I do, because I haven't been there. 
 I don't know a thing about it at all, only what I saw in the papers.  
 What's that? 
 I don't think so. I will sign it, if it comes up to me, because I suggested it. 7   7 On August 24, 1949, the President signed H.R. 1997, a bill to authorize the survey of a proposed Mississippi River Parkway .  
 No bad news.  
 Well now, you ask Congress about that.  I am here as long as the Congress is here. 
 No, there is no possibility of that.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
