 I have a short statement I want to read to you to begin with. Then we will have questions, if you feel like it.    "It is vital that the American people have a clear understanding of the position of the United States in the United Nations regarding Palestine."  This will be mimeographed and ready for you when you leave.  "This country vigorously supported the plan for partition with economic union recommended by the United Nations Special Committee on Palestine and by the General Assembly. We have explored every possibility consistent with the basic principles of the Charter for giving effect to that solution. Unfortunately, it has become clear that the partition plan cannot be carried out at this time by peaceful means. We could not undertake to impose this solution on the people of Palestine by the use of American troops, both on Charter grounds and as a matter of national policy.  "The United Kingdom has announced its firm intention to abandon its mandate in Palestine on May 15. Unless emergency action is taken, there will be no public authority in Palestine on that date capable of preserving law and order. Violence and bloodshed will descend upon the Holy Land. Large scale fighting among the people of that country will be the inevitable result. Such fighting would infect the entire Middle East and could lead to consequences of the gravest sort involving the peace of this Nation and of the world.  "These dangers are imminent. Responsible governments in the United Nations cannot face this prospect without acting promptly to prevent it. The United States has proposed to the Security Council a temporary United Nations trusteeship for Palestine to provide a government to keep the peace. Such trusteeship was proposed only after we had exhausted every effort to find a way to carry out partition by peaceful means. Trusteeship is not proposed as a substitute for the partition plan but as an effort to fill the vacuum soon to be created by the termination of the mandate on May 15. The trusteeship does not prejudice the character of the final political settlement. It would establish the conditions of order which are essential to a peaceful solution.  "If we are to avert tragedy in Palestine, an immediate truce must be reached between the Arabs and Jews of that country. I am instructing Ambassador Austin to urge upon the Security Council in the strongest terms that representatives of the Arabs and Jews be called at once to the Council table to arrange such a truce.  "The United States is prepared to lend every appropriate assistance to the United Nations in preventing bloodshed and in reaching a peaceful settlement. If the United Nations agrees to a temporary trusteeship, we must take our share of the necessary responsibility. Our regard for the United Nations, for the peace of the world, and for our own self-interest, does not permit us to do less.  "With such a truce and such a trusteeship, a peaceful settlement is yet possible, and without them open warfare is just over the horizon. American policy in this emergency period is based squarely upon the recognition of this inescapable fact."   Our policy is to back up the United Nations in the trusteeship by every means necessary.   Not necessarily.   My position hasn't changed with regard to immigration in Palestine.   The first thing to do is to restore peace in the Holy Land, try to see if we can't arrange a settlement that will stop the bloodshed. I don't want to see people killed any more. We have had enough of it in the past 10 years.   That's right. That's right. That's correct.   I don't think that the trusteeship will necessarily have to be enforced by force. We could not leave a vacuum on that situation over there, you understand. When the British pull out, there is no government. These people immediately start killing each other, and there must be some way to keep the peace, and keep utilities and communications and everything like that going, because Palestine is a unit, and unless it is economically bound together it cannot exist.   We will have to see if we can get the truce before we do anything else. That's what we are working on now.   The United Nations would be the trustee.   No. That depends altogether on how the matter works out--after the trusteeship gets going.   That is what I am trying to say here as plainly as I can.   The United Nations would have to handle that matter. We support the United Nations to the limit. That doesn't necessarily mean that we would have to put American troops in there.   I am hoping that they will--that the truce will cause a peaceful settlement, and that that will not happen.   We will cross that bridge when we come to it.   Did I ever tell you that any schoolboy's hindsight is worth all the President's foresight?  That is just as true now as it was then.   I don't think the United States would be called upon to accept the trusteeship. It will be a United Nations trusteeship, run by the United Nations itself.   That matter will have to be worked out in the United Nations. I can't give you the details because I am not speaking for the United Nations. I am speaking for the United States.   It is a practical possibility, yes. Wouldn't be advocating it, if it were not.   I can't answer that question. We will have to wait and see how this works out, because the only other alternative seems to be to slaughter a lot of people. That is what I am trying to prevent have been trying to prevent all along.   Of course, we didn't want Britain to leave Palestine in the present conditions. Britain was supposed to stay there until August 15. They suddenly took a notion to pull out. I don't know why. I don't run the British Government, either.    We will cross that bridge when we get to it.    Good!  Let's hear what the subject is changed to.   The Commerce Department is handling that situation. Most of these things were bought by Russia about 2 years ago or more, and Russia is, at the present time, a friendly nation and has been buying goods from us right along. The Commerce Department can give you all the details of what the situation is.    I will comment on the tax bill when it gets to my desk. It is going the usual rounds now.    That's the first I've heard of it. I don't know anything about it.    I am getting up a program for the Congress on defense which I will send down shortly, and I will let you know just exactly how I stand on it.   No. The estimate hasn't reached me yet.   I can't answer that.    That matter is being considered by the State Department now. You see, that trade agreement covers 15 or 20-maybe 30 nations.    The speech speaks for itself. If you read it, it is very clear. There were no weasel words in it.    Yes, I did. I have always been for it. I am still for it.    I am pursuing the legal steps set out in the law in the mine strike now. We first had the chief conciliator call in the principals. They could not reach an agreement. I have appointed the board which the law provides, and when the board makes the report I will take whatever further steps are necessary under the law.  1  On March 15, 200,000 coal miners went on strike in support of the United Mine Workers oldage pension demands.   That board will report promptly just as soon as it is ready.    No, I hadn't thought about it. I think daylight saving is a lot of "honey" in most of the places. lust upsets the calendar across the country. We built those time zones across the country so that the time could be changed in an office so people could use it intelligently. In the days gone by there were differences of 15 minutes in cities 10 miles apart. We now get an hour's difference in cities that adjoin each other. If there is a daylight saving program, it should be a national program, not a local one. I would be in favor of a national one.    No, I haven't any comment to make on it. It doesn't disturb me, if that's what you are interested in.   Well, let's wait for November and see. I am going to give them a chance to walk back.   Yes. The Democrats will win in November. I am making a prophecy.   I was correctly reported on that. That's the truth.    Well, you Would have to draw your own conclusions. That was a cartoon, not an editorial. 1   I have the original of that cartoon, that's how much I think of it.  1  The editorial entitled "He'd Rather Be Right--" appeared in the Washington Evening Star of March 24, 1948. On March 14 there had appeared in the same paper a cartoon by Jim Berryman. In the cartoon the President says, "I'll stand pat!" and a figure labeled Democracy asks, "Then you'd rather be right than be President?"   I didn't read it. I'm sorry.    I can't go. I'm sorry.   No. I have to stay here at this desk with the job.    N0, I have not. No, I have not.    I will give you the answer to that as soon as it is ready. I don't want to comment on it because it isn't ready yet, and nobody knows anything about what I am going to recommend. I will let you know as soon as I am ready to make a recommendation.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
