 That clock is 7 minutes fast!   I have no announcements to make. If you want to ask me some questions, I will try to answer them.  \. Not at present.  \. No comment. \. No comment. \. I have no comment on that, either.   \. It has not been taken up with me. I can't comment on it. I think a thing of that kind would come to me before any action was taken on it.  \. I think very highly of the President of Ecuador. We had very pleasant conversations, and I enjoyed the visit with him very much. I think he is a good man who is anxious to do the right thing.  \. I don't know what shape that bill will be in until it comes to me for signature. I will comment on it completely and thoroughly at that time. You can't tell what a bill will contain until it has gone through conference, and been passed by both Houses. You can't comment on a bill in the committee. 1 1 See Items 140 , 176. \. I can't answer the hint. I want to see the bill.  \. We have not talked on business matters at all. This is purely social. He will see me Friday to talk business matters which he came to see me about. We will probably issue a communique on it. 2  2 See Items 140 , 176.  \. I think you state the case exactly.  \. I don't understand what you are talking about. \. Well, I thought this reporter stated the case correctly. \. You mixed me up a little bit. \. I was sure of that!   \. Yes, I do. \. I think the inter-American relationship is on a better plane than it has ever been in history, and I hope to keep it that way, as far as I am concerned.  4  See Item 125.  \. Just seeing the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  \. No comment. I don't know how the Senator can read my mind. \. I said I didn't see how anybody can read my mind. I said the Senator--I don't see how anybody can read my mind. It is very difficult, as Mr. Lawrence  5  over here found out.   5  William H. Lawrence of the New York Times  \. I didn't hear that question, will you please repeat it? \. I think the Secretary of State commented on that yesterday fully. 6  6 peaking at his news conference on June 20, Secretary of State Dean Acheson described the Iranian oil situation as critical, and appealed to Iran to reconsider her rejection of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company's offer of 10 million pounds as a first step toward settlement of the nationalization dispute. Mr. Acheson said that the United States had hoped that the British financial offer would provide a basis for fruitful negotiations that not only would be agreeable to the British company but also would recognize the desire of the Iranians for the nationalization of their oil resources.  \. No, I am not. Whenever I am ready, I will let you know.  \. No comment, for the simple reason that the bill has not come to me for consideration as yet, at which time I will make the necessary comment. \. You can't tell what a bill will be until it has passed both Houses.  \. Will you please repeat the question, I didn't hear? \. I still couldn't hear the question. Will you talk into that microphone, so we can all hear? I'm sorry. \. No comment.   \. I will answer that when the bill comes before me in its final form.  \. The request has not reached me yet.  7  Philip Murray, president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations. \. I will not--no comment on that.  \. I was wearing a straw hat from Ecuador that I have had for about 3 years. It is still in good shape.  \. It was sent to me from Ecuador by somebody who went down there on a visit, from some official who wanted to be kind to the President. But it is a good hat.   \. Going what?\. Well, I can't answer that question until I find out what the Congress is going to do, as we still have an immense amount of legislation that has to be passed. I have to stay here until it is passed. \. No, no, I can't do anything until Congress gets through its action. \. None at all.  Reporter: Thank you, sir. Note: President Truman's two hundred and sixty-seventh news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:37 a.m. on Thursday, June 21, 1951. 
