  I want to read you a statement, then you can ask questions.  "The Taft-Hartley labor bill has been passed by the Congress over the President's veto.  "I have expressed my objections to this legislation and my concern as to its effects. Nevertheless, it is now the law of the land. It has become law in accordance with the constitutional processes of our Government. We must all respect its provisions.  "For my part, I want to make it unmistakably clear that, insofar as it lies within my power as President, I shall see that this law is well and faithfully administered.  "I have already received the assurances of the present members of the National Labor Relations Board that they will seek to give the new act the fairest and most efficient administration within their power.  "The persons who are to be appointed to the new offices created under the act will be selected with the same objective. I regard it as of the utmost importance that persons be selected for these offices who have the confidence of management and labor, and who can be depended upon to deal fairly with both. Above all, they should understand the paramount interest of the Nation as a whole.  "Insofar as management and labor are concerned, there is a vital responsibility upon them to comply with the law in a spirit of tolerance and fair play. Neither management nor labor will achieve any long-range benefit by seeking to use the provisions of this act to gain unfair advantage or to sustain arbitrary attitudes. It is in the interests of both to maintain steady production at fair wages while the effect of the new act is being tested by experience. At this time, as at all others, they will serve their mutual welfare best by working together with full recognition by each of the legitimate rights of the other.  "I call upon labor and management, therefore, to exercise patience and moderation in accommodating themselves to the changes made necessary by the act.  "Industrial strife at this critical time can result only in economic dislocation injurious to all of us. If it should reach serious proportions it would threaten the stability of our economy and endanger the peace of the world.  "We cannot afford such a result. It is our solemn duty to make every effort to maintain industrial peace under the provisions of the new law. "We must all do our part."  That is the end of the statement. Copies of it will be handed to you as you go out.  
 I will take care of that when it comes up here, as I usually do.  
 General Marshall, I think, covered that very completely in his press conference yesterday, and General Marshall and I are in complete agreement. 
 The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State and the President are in complete agreement.  
 No one is at present being considered for any of these jobs. 
 Well, I will let you know immediately as soon as I am ready to put it out.  
 NO, I have no statement on it. No comment.  
 No, I have not.  1  Mayor James M. Curley of Boston had been convicted and sentenced for mail fraud. 
 The case has not been put up to me.  
 I have no comment on that.  2  On June 18 the President withdrew his nomination of Ray C. Wakefield for a new term as Federal Communications Commissioner.   Your question is answered in the statement that I have just made about this. 
 Yes.  
 That's news to me. I didn't know he was coming back. 
 There has been no definite arrangement made for a visit to Brazil. The Brazilian Ambassador invited me to come to Brazil, and I told him I would like very much to come, but I could not make any firm commitments on that situation until we found out what the further situation would develop. 
 No. No. You know that we will be busy as we can be in August. 
 The Brazilians are a very hospitable people. I know I would have a grand time if I could go down there.  
 The statement speaks for itself. Read it very carefully.  
 That was the objective in view, if the Rio conference is held. 
 Legislation. If the Congress-- 
 Have they definitely passed a resolution for July 26? 
 They haven't passed any resolution. You see, I served 10 years in the Congress.  
 Don't put me on the spot in such a manner as that. I don't want to be impolite to our neighbors. I would like to go to Brazil, conference or no conference, but I don't think I will be able to go at the time they are interested in having me come. If there is a conference, I hope I can attend the conference. Let's put it that way.  
 Mr. Cooper was just making a report on conditions in Peru to me.  
 If it is necessary for me to send them things to do, I shall certainly do it.   
 I certainly do. I think it is absolutely necessary for the peace of the world and the welfare of this country.  
 No, I have had no reports on that subject. 
 I don't contemplate anything against the United Mine Workers at the present time. The Attorney General is looking into the coal situation as it develops, and whatever action can be taken or is necessary to be taken will be taken if it becomes necessary. There is nothing before us at the present time.  
 I made that request, I think, a little over a year ago. It was not complied with.  
 What's that? 
 Oh yes. That should be passed. General Marshall made the case for that, as did General Eisenhower, the Secretary of War, and the Secretary of the Navy, I think. We are all in agreement.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and tenth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 o'clock on Thursday afternoon, June 26, 1947. 
