  I have a statement for you--getting to be a habit here lately. Saves a lot of questions, I find, though, if you clear them up before you start.  : "The Department of State is publishing tomorrow a volume on the United States relations with China, particularly during the last 5 years. I asked the Secretary of State to have this record compiled and published. 1   1 United States Relations With China: With Special Reference to the Period 1944-1949. Based on the files of the Department of State. Department of State Publication 3573. Far Eastern Series 30. .  "My primary purpose in having this frank and factual record released at this time is to insure that our policy toward China and the Far East as a whole shall be based on informed and intelligent public opinion. This is the way in which our system of government acquires its strength. As I said in the speech at Chicago last month, 'Only if men know the truth are they in a position to work for a stable and peaceful world.' 'In this nation, foreign policy is not made by the decisions of a few. It is the result of the democratic process, and represents the collective judgment of the people.'  "The role of this Government in its relations with China has been subject to considerable misrepresentation, distortion, and misunderstanding. Some of these attitudes arose because this Government was reluctant to reveal certain facts, the publication of which might have served to hasten the events in China which have now occurred. In the present situation, however, the mutual interests of the United States and China require full and frank discussion of the facts. It is only in this way that the people of our country and their representatives in Congress can have the understanding necessary to the sound evolution of our foreign policy in the Far East.  "The Secretary of State in transmitting this record has made a clear and illuminating statement of the situation that exists in China, the nature of the problems that are presented, and the governing principles of our policies toward China. This statement will also be published and should be read, with the record, by everyone who is interested in problems of the Far East.  "The warm feeling of friendship between the people of the United States and the people of China has been one of the most notable facts in American foreign relations. That friendship is as strong today as it has ever been. The problem of finding ways to give practical expression to that friendship will continue to receive, day in and day out, the closest attention of this Government, and I know that it will receive the hopeful, constructive, forward-looking thought of the American people."  Now this China paper will be ready for distribution to the press at 2 o'clock today, at the State Department, and I will show you what a nice chore you are going to have.  There it is. And it's complete and factual, and there's everything in it that you want to know about the China policy from the 1840's to the present day. And if you will take the time to carefully read and study it, you will know just about as much about China policy as the President does, and I think I know more about it than anybody else. 
 It includes everything, and that's in there in toto. And everything that General Marshall ever did is in there, and anybody else you want to ask about. Even General Hurley is in there, in toto.  
 Now, that question--that question is thoroughly and completely answered in there; and it was an entirely erroneous understanding. 
 Yes, I recognize the question, and where it came from; but read this and then you will have it. 
 Read the China policy book. 
 Everything that is necessary is in this book.  
 Mrs. Roosevelt every year offers to resign from her job on the UN, just because she thinks that the President ought to have a free hand to make an appointment. There was--she expressed no reason as to why she wanted to resign. Simply a matter of courtesy to me.  2 See note in Item 166 . 
 She is going back to the UN.  
 I think it would be a fine thing. I am not picking any cities, however. 
 An international fair-proposal for an international fair to be held some time in 1950 in the United States, to make sales of our products easier and to make imports easier so that one could offset the other. Sort of like the European fairs that have been held for generations.  
 I have seen the "Big Four," and they quoted me correctly at the front door of the White House, that it will require a great deal of research by the experts of the Ways and Means Committee, and the Finance Committee of the Senate, and the Treasury Department, before we can approach the excise tax problem as it should be; and it will be at least the next session before anything will be done about excise taxes.  
 It would not be proper for me to interfere in the affairs of the Republican Party--except in a campaign.  
 I have no comment on that. In fact, I don't know anything about it. It hasn't been put up to me.  
 Anybody has a right to buy matches anywhere with anything on them that he wants to have put on them. That's the first I ever heard about that one.  
 That's right. 
 I shall meet him at 4:30, as I always meet the heads of States. We shall have conferences at the Blair House, and he will have dinner with me that night, and the next night I will have dinner with him at the Philippine Embassy. 
 Whatever the President of the Philippines desires to discuss with the President of the United States will be discussed.  
 The arms aid proposal ought to be passed--in the manner in which it was sent down, except for maybe legislative changes that will make it easier to handle--as quickly as possible. 
 I don't care anything about blank check power. All I want is to have an arms aid program so that it will work in a practical manner. 
 The money, yes. The money thing. 
 I don't particularly care whether that's in there or not. They are working on that situation now. All I want is that the European pact countries can be properly taken care of on rearmament, with our help, to implement the treaty so that it will be worth something.  
 The United States has not refused the loan. It is still under consideration, and I am hopeful that the loan can be worked out.  
 He has reported to me on his visit to New England. He hasn't returned yet. He will report to me again, as soon as he does return. I can't make any comment on it until I see the full report. 
 I can't comment on that. I would advise you to read the book, and you will get, then, the viewpoint just the same as I have.  
 It hasn't got to my desk yet. I am having it analyzed, and when it comes to my desk properly analyzed, if it's in the form that I think it is, I will probably sign it. 3   3  See Item 177.   Mr. Ross : I think that Quirino dinner is at the Statler Hotel.  THE PRESIDENT. What?  Mr. Ross: That dinner for President Quirino.  THE PRESIDENT. Charlie says that the dinner for the President of the Philippines will be at the Statler Hotel. I was misinformed on it. The reason it's at the Statler is because of course we can't have it at the White House, and the Blair House is too small-not big enough.  
 No, I did not. I don't know Colonel Hunt. 
 Oh, they come in every once in a while. People come in, sometimes, and hand me a box of them. Did you ever receive any matches? 
 I get boxes of matches from friends. They come to the White House all the time. We have a special brand particularly for the White House.  
 It's in the embryo stage yet. Nothing official has been done about it. It's being talked about. Probably will be in the hands of the city that wants to have it, just as any world's fair is.  
 Next Assembly. 
 Just the same job she always has. 
 Yes. Every year she always resigns. She tells me that if I want to appoint somebody else in her place, she will not be unhappy about it. Very formal. Just the customary formal politeness that Ambassadors and Delegates of the President always put forth.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.
