 We can't start the conference until the picture boys get through, so just be a little patient.    \. Thank you, Tony.  1     1  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  It's too bad you boys in the front row can't turn around and get in the picture too.   It's a good thing we don't have a birthday at every press conference. \. Every once in a while the astigmatic axis goes crazy and I have to have them made over, but the prescription is just the same. The frames are new. \. Did I!--by the bushel! Yes indeed--I'll spend the rest of the month writing longhand notes thanking people. All right now, we are ready to start.  \. Well, since the German and the Japanese surrenders, our whole effort has been to attain a lasting world peace. That is what we have been working for constantly and continually.   2  See 1945 volume, this series, Items 26, 27.  When the cold war started in Greece and Turkey, and Berlin, and finally in Korea, we had to put forth every effort possible to prevent all the free world from coming under Communist control.  Up to date, we have been successful in preventing a third world war. Conditions at the present time are very grave. We have been faced with a steel, strike and an oil strike, and we are now faced with some difficulty in the copper industry. And the attitude of the Congress towards the defense program and the mutual aid program is such as to imply that the necessity for those things is at an end.  That, I think, is as good an indication of the situation as I can give you, because what has happened very recently is right down the alley of Mr. Stalin.  Could we maintain our industry on an even keel, could we continue the mutual defense program to its logical conclusion and finish the economic program that is necessary to finish that mutual defense program, there would be no third world war.  I am still hopeful that we can get all these things straightened out and carry our program to a conclusion, in which case we will have a lasting and universal peace.  \. There is always the chance of both, and we have to guard against both, and that is the reason we have these powers to meet the situation. So far we have prevented either one.  \. The steel industry will not be discussed while it is before the Supreme Court.  3    3  On June 2 the Supreme Court ruled the seizure of the steel plants unconstitutional.  \. Well, I can't express my views because it's a matter for negotiation between the President of Chile and myself, and I hope we will bring it to a successful conclusion.  \. We are working very hard to get it settled. \. We have not yet considered it because we haven't come to that point yet. We still hope for a settlement.  \. I will be extremely explicit when the bill reaches me.  4  I can't comment on it now.   4  On June 20, 1952, the President approved the Mutual Security Act of 1952 . \. Well now, I can't write the Democratic platform, but I think it will be a good one when it comes out. If you will remember a certain speech on the 29th of March,  5  I think the platform will be founded on that speech.   5  See Item 69.  \. No. I will let you know just as soon as I am ready to make the appointment.  6      6   Henry H. Fowler was sworn in as Director, Office of Defense Mobilization on September 8, 1952. See also Item 246.  \. Well, I have this reflection to make, that I have had a most happy and I guess as full a life as any man of this age. And I have tried my best, in my public career, to give the people everything I had to give. And I am as happy as a man can possibly be on his 68th birthday. And as I told you yesterday, I feel as if I were 28, and that's not bragging a bit, because I expect to put in 10 years doing as I please.  For the last 30 years I have been in elective public office, and I have been a servant of the people. Therefore, I had to adjust some of the things that I would like to do to the necessities of government. From now on, I won't have to do that.  7  \. It will depend. A situation of that sort will depend altogether on the policy that will be pursued by the President who follows me. I shall support the President in his foreign policy, as every citizen of the country should do, and I will not do anything to embarrass him.   7  Later that day, the White House released the text of the preceding paragraphs on the President's public life as material authorized for direct quotation.  \. I am for a two-party system, and I will do everything I possibly can to make the two-party system work, and keep it strong; and that is the only way that our Government can successfully work under the Constitution.  \. No, he did not. There wasn't any reason why he should. \. I make no promises of appointments in a political campaign. I have never done it, and I don't expect to start now--between now and the 20th of January--you don't overturn that rule.  \. Yes. Yes, I have a picture. I have a picture of Jack's marker.   8  Mayor Wally C. Foster of Tombstone, Ariz., had denied that a grave marker such as the one the President described for Jack Williams  had ever been erected in Boothill Cemetery prior to the President's first mention of the marker "about four years ago." \. Well, the committee went out and looked it up and found his grave, and the marker was somewhat disintegrated and they made a new one for him. It's there. I have a picture of it.  It's always good publicity, you know, to charge the President with not being truthful. Maybe the mayor wanted a headline.  \. Of citizens of the city of Tombstone.  \. Not up to date. \. No, I can't talk about it.  \. I am going to have a good time, Pete,  9  and do just as I damn please!    9   Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. No.   \. I have been invited to make a Labor Day speech in Milwaukee.  10  I have not accepted as yet.   10  See Item 241.  \. That's all right. \. Well, there's only one part of that that I would like to answer, that there is no American public official can hold office unless his private life is out on the clothesline for everybody to see.  \. I know nothing about it. I have stated my position on FEPC and it hasn't changed one bit. I am for the Democratic platform, and for the Republican platform on the same question.   \. Yes, they did. \. Yes, they did. \. I haven't discussed that with them at all. Regulation W was the only one that was discussed. And the situation is one that should be flexible to meet the situation as it comes up. I was asked about inflation and deflation over here a while ago, and the action of the Federal Reserve Board is right in line with the way it should be done. Now I hope that won't encourage Congress to take the power of the Board to act away.   11  Regulation W, for the control of consumer credit, was originally issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in 1941 , and became inoperative after June 30, 1949. It was reactivated by the Defense Production Act of 1950 as amended, and was suspended on May 7, 1952.  Regulation X, for the control of real estate credit, was issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the authority of the Defense Production Act of 1950 as amended , and was suspended on September 16, 1952. \. I want that continuing power to meet the situation as it comes along. \. Not a word of truth in it. There's not a word of truth in it. A complete survey of the situation was made, and the decision of the Board was made on its merits. \. Of course. They always charge wrongdoing for whatever you do, when it's in the public interest. \. That's the charge. It's just a charge to discredit the fact that we are trying to keep the economy on an even keel. And we have done it. It hurts some people, but it's the right thing to do. \. If the proper legislation passes, it will be. \. That's correct.  \. All right. I was waiting for a political question. I like to answer them.  \. I have no such intention at the present time, but the President, just because he is President of the United States, shouldn't be gagged when it comes to a choice of men running for office. And I have never been gagged. I have always expressed my opinion as to who I am for, and why I am for him. I am not ready to do that yet. \. Let's let the river take its course. I will make up my mind when the proper time comes. You know, I am a pretty good judge of political approaches, much to the regret of some people in 1948.   \. No comment on the Korean situation. My statement and General Ridgway's  13  covered the situation, and there shouldn't be talk about it in the press now.   12   See Item 121.   13  The statement issued by Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway, United Nations Commander in Korea and Commander in Chief of the far East Command, is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .  \. No, I don't think if I would analyze it you would quite understand it, so I will not make the attempt.  \. No, I wouldn't say it in that way. I would say, of course, that I do have a desire to cover some parts of the earth that I have never seen, but I would not want to do anything on that trip that would in any way embarrass the administration or the President who follows me in office, no matter who he is. \. No. I don't want to name any countries because you will just cause me trouble. They will be over here with delegations, and everything else, to get me there.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT: You're welcome. Note: President Truman's three hundred and third news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, May 8, 1952. 
