 Well, I've no particular announcements to make to you this morning; I just thought maybe it was time to have a press conference, and if you--    Well, the establishment of the Japanese Government was agreed to by all the Allied nations interested, and it is satisfactory to them. I hadn't received any notice there would be a discussion of that sort.    I'm still expecting it; I haven't it ready yet.   Probably tomorrow. I'll give it to you when it's ready.    The gift was made to General de Gaulle the same as the gift to former Prime Minister Churchill, General Chiang Kai-shek, and the King of Saudi Arabia under the War Powers Act, and was done as a matter of good will, because we had more C-54's than we could use and General de Gaulle needed one. It was the Government of the United States in a gesture of friendship to the Government of France.    That is correct.   The appointment of General MacArthur as Allied Commander in Chief was concurred in by all the interested powers, and he is designated to act for all the interested powers.   Yes, they do, through the Joint Chiefs of Staff.   They have a representative with General MacArthur through whom they can get in touch with him, or through me if they desire.   No, I have no comment, because all I know is what I have seen in the papers.   I think sometime within the next 10 days. I don't know exactly.   No, I don't look for him to do that; unless he feels it is necessary, I have no reason to ask him to come.    Any what?   No.    They're all surmises. You don't know a thing about the meeting until it's over. Let's wait until we hear the official report of the Big Five and see whether it's a failure or not.    Sometime soon.    I didn't know they had killed it. If they have, I'm sorry, and they'll hear from me later.  1    1   A White House release of September 30, 1945, stated that some of the comment on the President's supplementary unemployment compensation proposal had indicated a complete misunderstanding of the significance of the $25 a week maximum. As the President sought to make clear in his message to Congress on September 6th, the release continued, the $25 was a ceiling and not a guarantee that everyone would get $25 a week. All existing State laws which calculated weekly benefits as a percentage of wage loss would remain In effect, the release added.    I was expecting to go to Caruthersville to the fair on the 6th, and I had said to the Governor of Arkansas that if I could manage it I would stop there, but it looks now as if I am not going to get to either one.    That's up to the Congress whether there'11 be a bill. I have voted for that twice.   Yes.    They will probably be worked out as a reparations question, just the same way the German and Italian fleets were worked out.    I don't agree with him. If we ever get to that point, we are on the road to ruin just as in 1920.    Leo--Mr. Crowley--has been trying to resign for some time, and I have persuaded him to stay so far. He may want to do it again, and I will probably talk with him some more.   1    1   A White Hesse release dated September 27 announced that the President had that day accepted Mr. Crowley's resignation as Administrator of the Foreign Economic Administration and as a member of the board of directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, effective at the close of business October 15. The release also included the text of the letters exchanged between the President and Mr. Crowley.    He was in and talked with me, but no conclusion was reached on it. He has a perfect right to introduce it if he wants to.   Let the lady ask a question; you had one before.    No, the Secretary of Labor is working on the situation and I think he will bring it to a successful conclusion.   I would rather not make a comment on it now.    That is a matter that will be up to the United Nations to be settled by vote. They're welcome to come to the United States if they so desire.    No, I have no comment to make on the Downey bill.    The disposition was worked out at Berlin. It was to be divided into three sections, one to go to Russia, one to Great Britain, and one to the United States.   I can't answer that until I have more information.    He is following out the directive he received from the Potsdam conference--I like to call it the Berlin conference.    I will answer that question in my message to Congress.    You better speak to the Secretary on that.    Of course when Alaska is ready for statehood, it will be given to her.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
