  Wall, Mr. Clifford will quit as Special Counsel to the President on Tuesday night at midnight. And Mr. Murphy will be sworn in the next morning, the 1st of February. There will be an exchange of letters available for you when you go out, all mimeographed. That's the only announcement I have to make.  
 No Comment.  1 On January 25, 1950, Alger Hiss, former State Department official, was sentenced by a United States District Court to 5 years in a Federal penitentiary for perjury. According to the New York Times, Secretary of State Dean Acheson told reporters at his news conference on January 25, "I do not intend to turn my back on Alger Hiss." 
 That's a nice question! What's that ? 
 What's that? Didn't you read my message on excise taxes? 2
 You had better read that message over again and your question will be answered.  2 See Item 18. 
 Well, read the message over again. Read it  
 No, there is no point in asking any other Alger Hiss questions. 
 They are not asked with good intent, and I don't intend to answer with good intent.  
 No questions on that, either. 
 No comment.  
 Mike Kinney is sitting right here now. I saw Barney Dickman yesterday.  3 Michael Kinney, Missouri State Senator, and Barnard F. Dickman, Postmaster for St. Louis, Mo. 
 Well, they probably will, when they get around to it, because that is what they always come to see me about.  4 See Item 3 . 
 No. No word of truth in that at all. I had a telephone conversation with the Governor just the day before yesterday, and we are on the friendliest of terms. 
 No, it was on another matter.  
 That's a finny one, sure enough.  5 The text of the address delivered by Senator Harry Flood Byrd of Virginia before the National Industrial Conference Board in New York City on January 26 is printed in the Congressional Record .  
 No comment.  
 My ideas on FEPC have been very clearly set out, and I would advise you to read that message 6    6 See 1948 volume, this series, Item 20.  
 The Congressman was in to see me, and discussed the matter. We are working on the situation.  7 Representative Wright Patman of Texas, Chairman of the House Small Business Committee, met with the President at the White House on January 26. At that time Congressman Patman gave the President a report from the Committee calling for quota restrictions to be imposed on foreign oil imports, contending that they were damaging the domestic oil industry.  
 I can scotch that one just as easy as pie. The Ambassador is recovering rapidly, and he will be back in England inside the next 60 days.  
 I told you once that I was not interested in dabbling in the primaries of any other State outside of Missouri. That is a North Carolina matter which they will have to settle themselves.  
 No.  8 On January 20, former Supreme Court Justice Owen J. Roberts, president of the Atlantic Union Committee, headed a delegation of the Committee which called on the President at the White House. Their purpose in seeing the President was to urge him to support the proposed convocation of a Federal convention of the democracies signatory to the North Atlantic Pact to explore the possibility of union between them. 
 No. 
 The Judge and his group were in here, and as usual we had a very pleasant visit together, and I thanked them for making a contribution toward helping the United Nations work more efficiently.  
 I don't know anything about that compromise. My compromise is in my civil rights message.  9 On January 25, several southern Democratic congressional leaders met to plan their strategy in dealing with the civil rights bill. After the meeting the New York Times reported that a compromise might be proposed containing the following provisions: that the FEPC program be put on a voluntary basis, that the antilynching legislation require proof by the Government that in such mob action there had been collusion between the mob and the law officers, and that the poll tax be repealed only by a constitutional amendment.  
 No, there isn't, and I don't think anybody else has had anything authoritative. I make that decision and nobody else. 
 No, there is not.  10 See Item 26.  
 His successor has not been chosen. Whenever I get to the point where I can announce it, you will have it right away. 
 Not that I know of.  11    11 On February 7, 1950, the White House released the text of the President's letter accepting the resignation of Lewis L. Strauss as a member of the Atomic Energy Commission. The text of Mr. Strauss' letter was released with the President's reply. The resignation became effective April 15, 1950.  
 Yes, I have received the report, and read it very carefully. 
 No comment.  12 The report was in the form of a letter from James Boyd, Director of the Bureau of Mines, to Oscar L. Chapman, Secretary of the Interior. The letter, dated January 20, 1950, stated that there were 40 million tons of coal on hand on January 1 and that the danger point of 25 days of overall supply in the hands of consumers was rapidly approaching.  The report concluded that "if it had not been for the two 2-day weeks during the holidays and the wildcat strikes during the past 3 weeks, it is estimated that an additional 9 to 10 million tons would have been available. The tonnage might well have been the balancing point that would have kept days supply above the danger point."  
 I can't comment on that. I am doing everything I possibly can to get the international control of atomic energy. I have been working at it ever since I became President.  
 No comment.  13 On January 22 the Russian border guards at the checkpoint at Helmstedt, Germany, began requiring that all allied vehicles obtain clearances before proceeding on the Autobahn connecting Berlin and the western zones of Germany.  
 I suggest that you read my message, and that sets out exactly what I want in civil rights. That's all the comment I expect to make on it.  
 I can't tell you. I am taking plenty of time on that, because I am going to get the man I want before I make the appointment. 
 No. 14 Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.  14 See Item 29 .
