  I will explain to you why I was late. The President of Chile was our guest last night at the Blair House, and it is necessary for the President to see the distinguished guests away from the Blair House when they leave. We were a little late making the arrangements, hence you had to wait 10 minutes--which doesn't happen very often.  I have no announcements to make. If you have any questions, I will listen to them.  
 That is a matter for the Attorney General himself to determine. The grand jury was called in Kansas City at my suggestion to the Attorney General several months ago.  1 Charles Binaggio and Charles Gargotta were found shot to death at the First Ward Democratic Club in Kansas City, Mo., on the morning of April 6, 1950. Both men had testified before a special Federal grand jury in Kansas City that had been called to investigate nationwide crime and vice.  
 I think we have been working for that for some time past. Haven't you read any of my messages on that subject? 
 When you read the messages you will get the plain answer.  
 I have not. It is not in my jurisdiction. I have not discussed it with them and don't expect to discuss it with them. 
 No, he did not. 
 The scope of the investigation was to, if possible, get to the bottom of these national rackets. And the Attorney General called the grand jury at my suggestion for that purpose. The rackets are nationwide, they are not confined to Kansas City or St. Louis or--there are as many in St. Louis as there are in Kansas City. They are in every big city in the country, even in Washington, if I am not mistaken.  
 I have no comment to make on that. I did see the Finance Minister. I understand that he went away from here highly pleased with the result of his visit.  
 Just the grand jury in Kansas City. 
 Yes. Grand juries were already in session in several other cities, and I suggested one be called in Kansas City and one for St. Louis. The one for St. Louis I don't think was called. 
 Yes, I meant it to be nationwide in scope. 
 That is exactly right.  
 Not this.  2  The vault of the Kansas City Board of Election Commissioners in the Jackson County Courthouse in Kansas City, Mo., was broken into during the night of May 27--28, 1947, and the contents of three metal ballot boxes, containing ballots, poll books, and tally sheets, were stolen. The articles had been returned to the vault the day before after being used as evidence by a State grand jury in a 2-month investigation of alleged vote manipulation in the August 1946 primary election. 
 I have not. 
 I don't know anything about it.  
 Very good visit. That is quite a jump from St. Louis to Santiago, Chile, isn't it?  
 I did not. The President of Chile is coming to pay an official call on me at 4 o'clock this afternoon, and we shall discuss any subject in which he is interested.  
 Do you think that is possible?  
 Yes. 
 I haven't read Senator Taft's column, and I do not make it my business to read political publications of people who are running for office 
 --particularly in one statement. 
 That would be natural for Senator Taft. He is running for reelection in Ohio, and I suppose he has something else in mind a couple of years from now.  
 I am very much interested in it.  
 Anything. I told you you could ask any questions and I will answer all I Can. 
 I don't think it's anybody's business how I voted, but I was for the increase in the tax and I voted for it.  
 I have no comment on the defeat. The people of Missouri just simply didn't want it, I reckon. They overwhelmingly thought that they didn't want it.  
 I have no comment on that and I do not intend to comment on that this morning. Mr. Taylor is here on private business of his own.  
 Shoot all the questions you want. 
 I am not in the legal buisness, and you can make your own construction on that.  
 What's that? 
 Senator Tobey made a recommendation for the ICC, and he will have the same consideration that several dozen other people have that have been recommended to me from all parts of the United States. There are other Sates in the Union as well as New Hampshire.  
 Yes, I can comment on it. The reason for the postponement was due to the fact that the ECA appropriation should get into the omnibus appropriation bill in the House. Unless it is passed promptly, it will not get into that omnibus bill. The FEPC will be carried to the logical conclusion, and every effort will be made to pass FEPC promptly without starting a filibuster against an international matter that is of vital importance to the whole world.  
 Surveys are being made, and I have some preliminary reports on it. 
 HOW'S that ? 
 The whole Mississippi Valley--Pittsburgh to Denver, and from Minneapolis to New Orleans.  
 Yes, I have. 
 Not quite.  
 That is an easy thing for a person to say. The first 5 years have been rather difficult, but the country is still on its feet. And in spite of some unemployment, we have more people at work than ever before in the history of any country in the history of the world. We have the most prosperous business setup that the country has ever seen, if the Wall Street reports are to be believed. We have the farmer in better financial condition than he has ever been in the history of the country, except at the top point in 1948, I think it was. And I can't see that there is any serious thing the matter with the country as a whole. I think it's in fine shape. In fact, the first 5 years after the greatest war in history have been easier on the United States than the aftermath of any other war that was ever fought in this country, if you will read your history a little carefully.  Of course, it couldn't possibly be that the Executive is to be credited with that situation. That just took place. It would have taken place if we had had a moron on the job, according to the way the general attitude of some of the press is.   But I think that the President can take credit for the situation, and that is what he proposes to do.  
 I think that you get plenty to eat, Miss May, 3  and I have an idea that you are getting a bigger salary than you ever have gotten before in your life.  3 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 That's true, but they are getting more than they ever got before in their history. 
 If you will study the situation, you will find that the principle of surpluses being destroyed was brought about by your representative in the Senate from Maine, and it was potatoes that caused most of the trouble. 
 Yes, the output of every farmer is at its greatest and farmers are prosperous, and we have a solution for that, a proposition which has been in the Congress ever since the 1st day of January of this year to meet that problem. We have the solution for it. If you will work for that solution as hard as you are bringing attention to the surpluses, we will get it solved. 
 That is the Brannan plan. 4  
 I think the situation worldwide is better than it was in 1946, and I think there has been a gradual improvement.  4 On April 7, 1949, Secretary of Agriculture Charles F. Brannan appeared at a joint session of the House and Senate Agriculture Committees, at which time he outlined his price support plan. The plan would substitute an income support standard for the previous parity formula, use direct payments to farmers when prices of certain perishables fell too far below parity, and let those perishables sell to consumers at supply and demand prices.  
 What's that? 
 I am going on a nonpolitical tour to dedicate some dams, and I think my speeches will not be partisan or political. The one in Chicago may be, but that will be at the end of the trip. 
 I beg your pardon? 
 Well, you had better wait and see. I don't like to prophesy what I am going to say. I think you found that out on the train.  
 The bill has not come to my desk yet. It is being analyzed by the various departments. When it comes to my desk, why I will let you know about it. 5    5 On April 20, 1950, the President signed the Housing Act of 1950 .  
 The Kerr bill is under consideration now. It is being analyzed in the various departments.  
 There is an investigation, and it has been ordered by Admiral Conolly, 7  and I can make no comment on it until we know all the facts.  6 On April 8, 1950, a United States Navy patrol plane vanished over the Baltic Sea. The plane, carrying four officers and six enlisted men, was a Privateer, a four-engined plane with a tail assembly somewhat resembling that of the B-29. U.S. officials stated that the plane left Wiesbaden Air Base in Germany and that its destination was Copenhagen, Denmark. Some debris was later sighted by search planes, but there were no survivors. The Soviet Government subsequently stated that Russian planes had fired upon a B-29 Flying Fortress after it had failed to comply with orders and had opened fire upon the Soviet planes.  7 Rear Adm. Richard L. Conolly, commander of the U.S. fleet in the Mediterranean and east Atlantic.  
 No comment.  8 The White House had been receiving a large number of telegrams from Representative John W. Heselton of Massachusetts expressing his views on agriculture and the surplus food situation. The gifts that he had forwarded to the President were small boxes of rice, dried peas, dried milk, shelled peanuts, potatoes, and similar farm products. 
 What do I do with them? There's a nice, round file under my desk.   
 Will you turn back to about March 1948, and read Mr. Gallup?
 Well, that's about on the same par with that.  
 I can't answer that question, because the details of the trip have not been outlined as yet. Grand Coulee and Chicago are the only definite dates.  
 Yes, it is. 
 I think 1946 was about the worst time that we had anywhere. It was shortly after 1946 that we instituted the program for Greece and Turkey, and the Marshall plan came in June 1947. That was about the worst time with which we were faced that I can remember, except by a shooting war itself.  
 No, it is not a partisan, political issue. It is for the benefit of all the farmers of the United States. 
 And there are lots of Republican farmers that haven't been properly educated yet, or they would be Democrats.  
 Wait--you didn't give me a chance--you didn't give me a chance to finish my answer to your question. If you will give me a chance to answer your question, I will be glad to do it.  I said the Brannan plan was not a partisan program, it is for the benefit of all the farmers of the United States, and there are lots of Republican farmers, I think, that if they had been properly educated they wouldn't be Republicans. What is the rest of your question now?
 I am not barred from speaking on anything I want to--[Laughter]--but I don't intend to make any what you might call partisan speeches on this trip. 
 Oh, I can't answer you, because there are only--well, as I told you awhile ago, there are three stops in Wyoming to dedicate another dam--visit another dam. And I can't tell you how many speeches it will be. It will depend on how many stops we have. 
 There may be 50 or 60 before we get through.  
 You had better bring the oxygen tent.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and twenty-second news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:40 a.m. on Thursday, April 13, 1950. 
