 Well, ladies and gentlemen of the press, I have no special announcements to make this morning. We have been making announcements of things as they happen. I don't wait for press conferences any more, because you are so curious, but if you want to ask any questions, I will try to answer them.    Just as soon as I can get him. I will tell you right away, so you won't have to wait for a press conference.    Tomorrow, I hope.    Well now, you can't ask Mr. Smith that question, and I don't know what was in his mind.    I will cross that bridge when I get to it.   We made one yesterday.1  1 On May 12 the United States delegation to the United Nations proposed an interim solution for the Palestine problem. The plan called for abolition of the United Nations Palestine Commission and appointment by the five great powers of a High Commissioner for Palestine who would maintain services and act as a mediator in the expected war between the Jews and the Arabs.   It was just the customary conference with the Secretary of State and the Under Secretary of State, at which we discussed matters before the United Nations, including Palestine principally.    No, not yet. I will give you the name of the appointee as soon as I decide on it. It is hard to get people to take jobs of that sort these days.    I have none in contemplation at the present time.    I have no understanding on it, for there is no such plan before me.   No, I have not.   No. It has not. It has not.    Well, that is a matter of record, and it has been passed on time and again by the courts. They have not!    How many times do I have to tell you yes to that one?   No. I don't expect any.    No, I am not going to make it public, because that is a matter of principle. They have no right to the confidential records of my office.  1 Dr. Edward U. Condon, Director, National Bureau of Standards.   It would not. You couldn't possibly get a congressional act unless I signed the bill.    Well, I can't give you an agenda of a meeting that is all in the mind. Should that take place, I will give you the agenda, and it would be most interesting.    My position hasn't changed on that.    Yes, it could be, but I don't think it would be. Congress has some secret papers they wouldn't like me to get my hands on. That would be a reciprocal proposition.     I will let you know about that as soon as I am ready to make the appointment.   No. The reason is in my own mind.    I think General Marshall covered that very adequately in his conversation yesterday with the press. 2  I have nothing further to add to what General Marshall had to say.  1 The notes were delivered in the form of oral statements made by Ambassador Walter Bedell Smith and Foreign Minister V. M. Molotov on May 4. The statements are printed in the Department of State Bulletin . For the President's statement on the exchange of views, see Item  2 Secretary Marshall's statement and a summary of his press conference of May 12 are printed in the Department of State Bulletin .   Of course I support what he had to say.    No, it is not, at the present time.    No, they have not, because the fundamentals have not been touched upon.    I never make comments on bills that are pending until they come before me, but as to outlawing political parties in the United States, I think that is entirely contrary to our principles. I don't think the splinter parties do any harm, and if there is conspiracy to overthrow the Government of the United States, we have laws to cover that.    It was discussed with General Marshall and the Cabinet.   I told you the message was discussed with General Marshall and the Cabinet. That includes the message from the first word to the "yours truly" at the end of it.   That's just what he did. That's just what he did.   That's just what he did.   Well, I wasn't there. I don't know. You will have to ask Ambassador Smith. I judge he did. It is customary with ambassadors to do that.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
