  I want to welcome the visiting editors and publishers from the 14 foreign countries here this morning. I am glad they got to come in, and I hope I will have the privilege of shaking hands with them after the press conference is over.  I have a couple of announcements to make.   The Honorable Sherman Minton will be the United States Supreme Court Justice. I will appoint him, and as soon as the Senate confirms him, he will be the Justice.  I shall appoint the Honorable William C. Lindley, Judge of the United States Court for the Eastern District of Illinois at Danville, to succeed Judge Minton.  And, I have appointed Honorable Casper Platte, Judge of the Fifth Judicial Circuit of Illinois-- 
 P-l-a-t-t-e. 
 He is Judge of the Fifth Judicial Circuit of Illinois. He succeeds Judge Lindley.  And I shall appoint Governor Ernest Gibson of Vermont to be the judge-- 
 How's that? 
 Whereabouts are you? 
 Honorable Casper Platte, Judge of the Fifth Judicial Circuit of Illinois. And Governor Ernest Gibson of Vermont, to be the Federal judge for the Vermont District.  I am ready for questions. 
 Help yourself!  
 Senator McCarran is on the trip to Europe on his own. He represents nobody in the Government of the United States except himself. He can make no commitments with Franco or any other government. It is perfectly all right for the Senator to make a visit wherever he chooses, but he can make no commitments for the Government of the United States.  
 No comment!   
 I haven't read it. I don't know what the definition is. If he has a definition, he has more than any of the dictionaries have.  
 I have no comment to make on that situation, for I am hoping that negotiations will progress to a settlement. 
 I think there is a decided difference. The acceptance as a basis for negotiation, I think, is the way that it has been accepted all the way around. That is my understanding.  
 I am very much interested in the National Guard recruiting campaign. I am interested in the National Guard as one of the components of the Reserve, and I think the defense of the country will depend almost entirely on the Reserve, when they have peace in the world. And I hope the National Guard recruiting program will be a success, as it always is.  I started my military career in the National Guard in 1905, on Flag Day, June 14, 1905. I joined Battery B, Kansas City, Mo. 
 B--yes. Afterwards expanded to the 129th Field Artillery, along with two other batteries. When I got promoted from the rear rank to the front rank, I thought I had got the greatest promotion in the Army. I went a little further than that, later on.  
 I think the communiqu is all the comment that is necessary. 1   1 British, Canadian, and American financial and economic experts conducted preliminary technical and factfinding discussions in Washington from August 27 to September 2, in preparation for ministerial talks which began the following week. The tripartite economic conference was held from September 7--12.  For the joint communiqu issued by the conference representatives on September 12, see the Department of State Bulletin .  
 I know nothing about the Whelan plan, so I can't comment on it.  
 I think the Secretary of the Navy handled that very capably yesterday, and it is in the hands of the Secretary of the Navy; and I am sure he will continue to handle it in a capable manner. 2   2 In a prepared statement presented to the press on September In, Captain John G. Crommelin, a member of the staff under the Joint Chiefs of Staff, protested that the Navy's offensive power was "being nibbled to death" and its morale destroyed.  On September 15, Francis P. Matthews, Secretary of the Navy, reversed the elevation of Captain Crommelin to the post of Deputy Chief of Naval personnel. He had been assigned to the post earlier in the day. The Secretary announced that Captain Crommelin had been transferred to the Office of Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Air for duty in the air warfare division under Rear Admiral E. A. Cruise.  
 No comment.  If you remember, back in 1947 we had some barometers like that, and they didn't work. 
 Since I don't read Look, and since I haven't read Mr. Fly's article, I can't very well comment on it.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and ninetyeighth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, September 15, 1949. 
