 Please be seated.  I have a couple of announcements to make. The copies of these announcements will be available to you later.   The following named persons are to be the Representatives of the United States in the Fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations:     Now I am announcing the appointment of Mr. Walter J. Donnelly to be Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States to Austria, and concurrently United States High Commissioner for Austria. 1  1 See Item 218. I would like to welcome the several Austrian journalists who are visiting in this country and who have been invited to attend this press conference. I hope that they are having an enjoyable stay here in America, and I am happy to be able to make an announcement that concerns their country this morning while they are here. 
 Well, I will spell it for you--D-o-n-n-e-l-l-y. You know how to spell "Walter," don't you? 
 All right. 
 Ambassador to Venezuela. 
 He is Ambassador to Venezuela right now. He is being transferred to Austria.  
 Well, it has happened very suddenly and unexpectedly, and I will have to take the matter under consideration and give you an announcement on that later. 2  2 See Item 221.  
 No, that decision has not been made yet. It will be announced as soon as it is made.  
 That's right, there are rumors rife all the time. I have seen everything that is going to happen in the papers for the next 2 months, but then you had better wait until what the action is, before you decide that they are true.  
 I can't answer that question right now. I will have to consider the situation further. I had no idea that the strike was going to take place, so I can't discuss it until I am more familiar with the reasons why it did--it is announced. It has not taken place yet, and I hope it won't. 
 Yes. I had definite assurance that there would not be. 
 From the railroad unions, and the railroad managers--both. 
 Within the last 2 or 3 days. It was in all the columns of the papers in the last 2 or 3 days.  
 I can't answer that question.  
 I think that is true. I think that is true. I am sure it is true.  
 I can't answer that question. You will have to ask him. He will ell you when he gets ready to go.  
 I have no comment.  
 I have no comment on that. I can't comment on that legislation until it comes to me for consideration, because you can't tell what a bill will contain until it goes through the conference and comes to the White House. Usually bills of hat sort contain everything but the kitchen stove, and sometimes they have to put that in, and then take it out.  
 It has not been requested of me.  3 Joseph W. Shimon, Washington police lieutenant. On August 17, 1950, two Washington detectives testified before the Senate wiretapping subcommittee that they had been assigned by Lieutenant Shimon to tap the telephone conversations of airplane manufacturer Howard Hughes during a Senatorial investigation in 1947. At that time Mr. Shimon was chief investigator in the United States Attorney's office. 
 When he asks me for it, I will give him the answer.  
 No, I am not planning to have it called off.  
 What's that? 
 I expressed my opinion of that at the last press conference. I don't like it.  
 That is news to me.  
 I am very happy to hear that, of course. We want all our allies in the fighting and shooting part of this unpleasantness, and I hope as many of them will come in as is possible.  
 I didn't hear the question. Will you please repeat it?  4  Representative Albert M. Cole of Kansas. 
 I have received no such letter. It is customary for Congressmen, when they are running for office, to write letters to the President and give them to the press long before he ever receives them.  
 It was not. 
 That report is absolutely without foundation. The Secretary of Commerce is in complete agreement with the President on what he asked for.  
 I have an idea that the Secretary of State will be there on occasion, if it is necessary. He is not a delegate necessarily, but he is always welcome if he wants to go there. He has my permission to go, if he wants to.  
 Who says that? 
 That's just one of those wild rumors. I have no comment. 
 I have no comment on it.  
 Now, Bob, 5  I don't want you to be putting words in my mouth. When the statement comes out, why it will contain everything that is necessary. I am not making any statement this morning.  5 Robert G. Nixon of International News Service. 
 There is nothing certain on prophecies for military maneuvers. I have no comment to make on that question.  
 Not officially. All I know is what I have seen in the papers. 
 Well, I am happy that they are doing it. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. All right.
