  I have some things to talk to you about today. First, I want to make a short statement on the final report of the Luckman committee, and this is mimeographed and will be available--no, it isn't, either. You will have to make your notes.  This one isn't?  Mr. Ross: But it is printed.   It is printed. You will receive the report.   "I received today the final report of the Citizens Food Committee, 1  headed by Mr. Charles Luckman, and I wish again to thank the Committee for its effective work in the emergency phases of our food conservation program. The report will be released for publication shortly. I think you will find it extremely interesting.  1  The 83-page report is dated December 18, 1947.  "I wish to call your attention particularly to the statement about the number of men thrown out of work by the temporary shutdown of the distilleries. I believe you will find a good story there.  "You will recall the estimates that fifty to one hundred thousand employees would be thrown out of jobs. Later it appeared that a maximum of some three thousand might be affected. The report now shows that 965 workers were actually laid off because of that shutdown, and that the United States Employment Service was able to place 551 of these in new jobs. The result is that only 414 of the distillery workers are now out of work--414 as contrasted with the hysterical estimate of more than fifty thousand"--as are most of these estimates.   The Honorable David A. Reed resigned from the Battle Monuments Commission, and I have today appointed Adm. Edward C. Kalbfus of the Naval School at Newport, R.I.   Under the Labor Management Relations Act, created under the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, I am appointing the following, who will serve as the National Labor-Management Panel. Their function is to "advise in the avoidance of industrial controversies and the manner in which mediation and voluntary adjustments shall be administered, particularly with reference to controversies affecting the general welfare of the country." And this list will be available, along with a short statement in regard to it, as you go out.  Mr. James Black, president, Pacific Gas and Electric Company--these are from management--Mr. Benjamin F. Fairless, president, United States Steel Corporation; Mr. Paul G. Hoffman, president, Studebaker Corporation; Mr. George M. Humphrey, president, M. A. Hanna Company; Lewis Lapham, president, American-Hawaiian Steamship Company; Charles E. Wilson, president, General Electric Company.  From labor: Mr. Harvey W. Brown, president, International Association of Machinists; Clinton S. Golden, Chief of the Labor Division of the American Mission for Aid to Greece; William Green, president, American Federation of Labor; Allan S. Haywood, vice president, Congress of Industrial Organizations; William L. Hutcheson, president, American Federation of Labor Carpenters Union; and Philip Murray, president, Congress of Industrial Organizations.  Now there will be a statement handed to you with that list that will cover the situation.   Not necessarily. If he is, I don't know it.   And I have a short statement with reference to Mr. Anderson's appearance before the congressional committee.   "With reference to the question regarding the publication of the list of speculators in commodity markets, I think that such list should be made public.  "However, the Congress has provided by law that information furnished to the agencies of the Government on a confidential basis shall not be divulged. Since the Congress itself has so provided, it is necessary that the Congress take some action removing this restriction. The Secretary of Agriculture could then make the list public.  "A resolution giving such authority to the Secretary of Agriculture has already been introduced and could quickly be adopted.  "I would approve such a resolution immediately. 1   "At the hearing this morning before the Senate Appropriations Committee, the Secretary further stated that he would furnish the list to the committee, if so directed, provided the meeting was held in public and the list was made available to the public. The committee refused to take this course of action. Instead, the committee adopted a resolution that the list should be furnished to it at a secret session and behind closed doors.  1  On December 19, 1947, the President approved a joint resolution authorizing the Secretary of Agriculture to publish the names of persons transacting business on the boards of trade and to furnish such names to committees of Congress upon request .  "The Secretary properly rejected this proposal.  "I fully support the position of the Secretary of Agriculture.  "I have already made my position clear with reference to speculation on the commodity exchanges, and I hope that the Congress will act promptly so that the facts in this situation can be known to all." Any questions?   That statement is mimeographed and will be available to you.    I Will meet that situation when it comes up.    I would be most happy to see General Stalin in Washington, if he wants to come here. I have said that time and again. But I want to say to you, and clear you up entirely, that the meeting at Yalta and at Potsdam was of the heads of the states and not the foreign ministers. The foreign ministers conference was organized at Potsdam, so the foreign ministers didn't have anything to fall out about at those meetings.   That was only preliminary. That was only preliminary to the meetings of the heads of states. They made no decisions.   Why, no, not recently.   He wanted to know if I had any communications from Premier Stalin lately, and I said no I had not.   No, I have not.   I would be glad to see him in Washington. Period.     Where did you get that notion ?   There isn't a word of truth in it. Not so long as I am President it won't be abandoned.    I think that has been very well commented on by Senator Morse.     I do not.   I will come to that after the first of the year. You will hear about that in the Message on the State of the Union. I simply answered this question.    IS it as much as that? I thought it was a billion, 240 million? No, that was the last year's crop, wasn't it?   I haven't seen that. I haven't seen that last report.   Well, I haven't had a chance to see it, and I can't comment on it, but I know just exactly what it provides. That should take into consideration all the other small grains, as well as wheat.    I am not at all downhearted about the peace. I think we will eventually get it.   Peace in the world.   General Marshall will answer that question tomorrow night, at 10 o'clock on the radio. 1    You're entirely welcome.  1  Secretary Marshall's address is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .
