  I have a statement here that I want to make. It will be available for you in mimeographed form after the press conference is over.   "It has long been the view of the United States Government that the people of Japan were entitled to a peace treaty which would bring them back into the family of nations. As is well known, the United States Government first made an effort in 1947 to call a conference of the nations holding membership in the Far Eastern Commission to discuss a peace treaty with Japan. However, procedural difficulties at that time and since have prevented any progress.  "The United States Government now believes that an effort should again be made in this direction, and I have therefore authorized the Department of State to initiate informal discussions as to the future procedure, in the first instance with those governments represented on the Far Eastern Commission, and the ones most actively concerned in the Pacific war. It is not expected that any formal action will be taken until an opportunity has been had to assess the results of these informal discussions.  "The policy in regard to a Japanese peace treaty is in accord with the general effort of the United States to bring an end to all the war situations. We have long pressed the U.S.S.R. for an Austrian treaty, and we are exploring the possibility of ending the state of war with Germany." Any questions? I will be glad to try to answer questions.    The letter speaks for itself. I have no further comment to make. That is a closed incident. 1    1 See Item 245.    Secretary Acheson is still Secretary of State, and he will remain Secretary of State.  2 Guy G. Gabrielson, chairman of the Republican National Committee.    Mr. McDonald has not yet presented me with his resignation, and I have not considered his successor as yet. 3  3 The resignation of James G. McDonald as Ambassador to Israel became effective on December 31, 1950. The nomination of Monnett B. Davis, of Colorado, to succeed him in that post was confirmed by the Senate on February 1, 1951.    That is customary. That is customary.  4  Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President.   No, I haven't.   I judge soon. It is customary. That doesn't necessarily mean that they will be accepted.   No, I have not. I will announce it as soon as I select one.   He will be consulted, of course,    Oh, certainly. They are a party to it. They had their occupation forces in Japan.    I think I made the statement to you last week that the Mundt-Nixon bill, in the form in which I knew it, was objectionable to me, and if it had come to me I wouldn't sign it. If it came up in that form, I would feel the same way. But, of course, I can't pass on legislation until it is before me and has been analyzed. The bill has to be rewritten in conference, as the House and Senate are not in agreement as to what the bill will contain. When the bill comes before me, I will have it analyzed and then I will let you know exactly what I am going to do with it, and promptly. 5    5  See Item 254.   I think it was worse--I think it is.   I can't answer that because I don't know what it is. That is the reason I have to wait and see what I am going to do. Go ahead.   As soon as I find the man, I will let you know right away.    We will cross that bridge when we get to it.    Yes, I have. I am very much pleased with them. The Democrats made tremendous gains in the Maine election. They have cast the largest Democratic vote in Maine than they ever had before--larger than 1948. And the Republicans cast a smaller vote than they did in 1948. So it looks very, very encouraging to me.   Well, what are we going after, Miss May? 7  We want a Democratic Congress this fall. It means--I think it means a Democratic Congress this fall.  7 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.   Yes, that's correct. Encouraging for the Democrats, Miss May.    I want it to be perfectly clear, Miss May.   If you look at them--if you look at them, they are very encouraging.   GO ahead. I'll get to you after a while.    I think it is an issue in Ohio right now.  Did you have a question you wanted to ask?    I asked the Australian Minister for External Affairs to discuss the matter with the Secretary of State, and then I would discuss it further.    I told you that I would take action as promptly as I could get the bill analyzed.   In the form--in the form in which it was presented to the Senate. Now I don't know what kind of bill we are going to get. I can't tell you until it is before me. I will give you an answer on it very promptly.    No. I don't believe in pocket vetoes.  Mr. Ayers: Mr. President, you did use it on one or two unimportant bills.   Eben Ayers 8  informs me that I did use the pocket veto, but not intentionally. I think it was--the things expired before I got around to them, and they were not important.  8 Eben A. Ayers, Assistant Press Secretary.    No. I talked to him over the telephone. I haven't seen him.    I have no comment to make on that.    That whole matter will be discussed by the conferees on that, I am sure.    I ask for it every time I have an interview with any of them.  9 See Item 231.    Senator Frank Graham's name has been suggested to me as head of the Red Cross. General Marshall has not resigned yet, however, and I can make no comment. 10    10  See Item 278 .    Well, I can't answer that question--I can't answer that question.   We are exploring the possibility of such a thing, but I can't tell you what progress. We have been right up to the signing of the Austrian peace treaty for the last 3 years, and haven't signed it yet.   That is being explored, and I can't give you an answer on that.   It's all right.   It will be discussed by the foreign ministers.   Yes, just as it always has been discussed.   Well, I don't know about that. All this reference that--I am talking about the foreign ministers, not the heads of states.   That's all right. I am in agreement then.   That's right.   That's right. That's correct--that's correct.  That's all right. Your seats are too comfortable, you hate to get up! 
