  I want to call your attention to some highlights in Mr. Steelman's report. 1  There is so much smoke and fire politically going on all the time in the country that unless you have the facts brought home to you once in a while, you forget what they are. All of us should be proud of what we have done so far. Here are some of the milestones:  1 "The Second Year of Peace, Eighth Report to the President, the Senate & the House of Representatives by the Director of War Mobilization and Reconversion," dated October 1, 1946 .  : "Of the total labor force of 60 million, 58 million have jobs. For most of the 2 million who are looking for work, the periods of unemployment are short, and in most cases unemployed workers draw compensation while they are looking for new jobs.  "Ten million veterans are gainfully employed today, compared with only 2 million at work on V-J Day--a gain of 8 million jobs for veterans in a year. But the total of unemployed veterans is still higher than any of us like to see it--about 900,000 or almost half the total of the unemployed. It is the Nation's responsibility to see to it that veterans looking for jobs get satisfactory employment at the highest level of their skills and at good wages.  "More than 800,000 veterans are enrolled in college this fall and are receiving the education their country promised them under the GI bill of rights.  "More than 350,000 dwelling units have been completed and are ready for occupancy under the Veterans' Emergency Housing Program. This record is creditable, but we are going to make it better. The reconversion agencies are doing their utmost to speed up the construction of veterans' housing of all types.  "And business profits, after taxes, are at an all-time high in the Nation's history, in spite of the fact that in some important industries they are still lagging. Income payments to individuals are also the highest in total they have ever been. Farm income, too, is at record levels. Consumer spending is high--the public is spending at the rate of $126 billion a year for consumer goods and services, and more than 20 percent over the war peak, and more than 60 percent over the prewar peak.  "Since V-J Day, total production of goods and services by private industry has moved steadily ahead, and has now reached the annual rate of $172 billion. Making allowances for increased prices, consumer nondurables such as food and clothing are still being produced and sold at a very high level. Good progress has been made in the production of many consumer durable goods-we have already surpassed 1940 or 1941 production levels in the case of electric irons, vacuum cleaners, passenger and truck tires, electric ranges, washing machines, radios, trucks, and buses. Production curve of refrigerators, passenger automobiles, gas ranges, and sewing machines is rising, and during the next few months we should have an increasing flow of these and other finished goods.  "All this adds up to a splendid achievement. But we must not pause to congratulate ourselves. A difficult struggle lies before us. We must do our utmost to keep industrial peace, to maintain production at present levels where it is high, and to spur it to higher levels where it is lagging.  "I hope every businessman, worker, farmer, and consumer will take to heart this sentence from Mr. Steelman's report: 'An all-out emphasis on production of finished goods, and on preventing a further increase in prices, is the task immediately before us.'"  You have copies of that outside for you. Those are the facts, and I think you ought to stick to the facts when you are commenting on this situation.    Not only hope, but we are going to do it.   That is correct, but we are cutting down expenditures to the tune of $2,100 million.    Yes, I do. That is what we are fighting to avoid as much as possible. There is danger in it.    No, it was not. That's a matter between Mr. Baruch and Mr. Wallace.    I have no comment on that at this time.    We are doing everything we possibly can, with the tools with which we have to work.   There is no necessity for legislation at this time. Legislation wouldn't help the situation one bit; that is, the legislation we would probably get.     No, I have not. I will announce it just as soon as I make the decision.    No, I have not.    I have no comment on that.    No, I cannot. I am not ready to make any announcements.    Secretary Byrnes and I discussed the speech over the telephone, and I am in accord with what he has to say.   I hadn't contemplated it, and I think it has been pretty well stated.    Well, every department of the Government which has an interest in that subject is in constant touch with the situation; and we of course are keeping our hands-our fingers on the situation, and if it is necessary to take any action, we will.    I have none. I think that's a fair trial, as far as I can see it, and I think it's a good thing for the world--one of the greatest things that has come out of this war.    I have no comment to make on any conversation I had with Admiral Towers.    No. There's no discrepancy in it at all.   I said there would possibly be a shortage of meat continually, there will not be an abundance of meat for some time to come, but there would be no meat famine. If you read that statement you will find that that is the statement. It hasn't been--it isn't contemplated by Mr. Steelman's report.   I am making a survey to see whether I agree with the OWMR. I think ,Mr. Steelman is probably correct.    No, I have not.    No. No announcements until I am ready.   Yes, he is.   No, I could not.   I could not say anything about it.     You might ask Senator McKellar about that.   We are making--the Budget and Mr. Steelman are making a survey to see whether any injustices have been done in the cutting off of contracts. If any injustices have been perpetrated, why they will be adjusted; which doesn't necessarily mean that there will be an increase in the funds available.    My statement stands. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
