 I have no particular announcements to make today, but I thought maybe you might like to ask me some questions and would rather come in and do it.  
 I am not familiar enough with the provisions of the Hatch-Ball-Burton bill, because it was introduced just a short time before I left the Senate, and I can't answer the question.  
 Not that I know of. I think it's a good plan, however.  
 That is in accordance with the Executive order of August 18 which I read to you, I think, at another press conference. 1   1  See Item 157 . 
 We are discussing that tomorrow at a Cabinet meeting. I will have an announcement to make on it, I think, after the Cabinet meeting. 
 No, there isn't.  
 No--yes, I have received one message, but it was merely a formal message in answer to some former correspondence. It had nothing to do with the present situation. 
 I couldn't hear you. 
 No. 
 Not in contemplation. 
 I wish I did.  It seems to be interesting to most everybody. I suppose he was on his own personal business. 
 In correspondence with the other governments. I hope it will eventually be worked out. I am sure it will. 
 Naturally. It includes all the interested governments. 
 All the interested governments in the Far East. There are 10 or 12.  
 That matter is to be considered by the Congress. It is up to them to decide what ought to be done with that. When it comes up for consideration, I shall express an opinion on it. 
 Mr. Lewis stated that he did it in the public interest, which made me very happy. If all these gentlemen will work in the public interest, you will have very little trouble.  
 The policy has not been established as yet, but we hope as many of them as possible will be kept in operation. 
 No. By private industry. 
 I don't think it will be necessary.  
 No. I will furnish you that message in plenty of time so you can study it before I deliver it.  
 No, he hasn't. 
 No. I haven't considered it at all. I just signed the bill yesterday.  
 Not right recently. I had quite a voluminous correspondence with him at one time, and made some suggestions to him, which are still being considered. 
 No, because the matter is still under consideration by the British Government, and I don't want to appear to be pushing them unduly. I think that request which I made of Mr. Attlee was a reasonable one, and I am hoping that he will comply with it. I asked him to admit a hundred thousand Jews into Palestine. 1   1 See Item 188. 
 He didn't want to admit as many as I asked him to. 
 No-well, it is approximately correct, but it is more than that. He would agree to more than that.  
 No. No decision has been reached on it.  
 I want the Congress to have all the information that it feels it needs, so that it can legislate intelligently, but I don't think there ought to be any undue delay.  
 I will be right here at this desk. 
 No. 
 That's right. I will be right here at this desk.  
 No. That is an implemented and agreed on plan between the interested governments, and unless we want to assume the whole burden ourselves, we will have to go through UNRRA. 
 No, I would not. I think every nation ought to assume its part of the burden.  
 I think it is satisfactory. I don't know, because I haven't studied it carefully. When it comes up here for me to sign it, I will make up my mind on what I shall do with it. It is substantially in line with the suggestion in the message, I think.  Reporters: Thank you, Mr. President.
