 Please be seated.   For your information, I shall deliver the State of the Union Message on Wednesday, January 9, at 12:30. 1  That is the day after the day that Congress meets. I have been in touch with the Vice President and the Speaker and that day--and hour-is agreeable to them.  1 See Item 5.  I will try to answer questions, if you have any.  
 No.  I would not. The White House, after we move in and get settled, will be open to the public on nearly every day at the regular hour, and the public will have ample chance to see it. We don't expect to have any housewarming, except when we move in. We will heat it up then and see how it works.   
 He is entitled to think anything he wants to, but I have got a little statement that I want to read you about it, which covers it.   "I established the Commission on the Health Needs of the Nation because I want to see to it that the health of our people is protected and that sick people receive adequate medical care." Which they are not doing now.  "The purpose of the Commission is to study the facts and to give us the recommendations of high-calibre professional and lay persons. Their findings will help the public to get rid of the confusion that has grown up as a result of the bitter attacks upon any constructive measures I have supported to bring adequate health care to all our people. The fact that we lost over 500 million man-days of work due to illness in the last fiscal year is evidence enough that we must keep fighting the drain on our strength due to sickness and disease.  "I appointed as Chairman of the Commission, Dr. Paul Magnuson, an eminent surgeon whose reputation for integrity and devotion to the public service are absolutely unquestionable. Every one of the other 14 members of the Commission was recommended to me by Dr. Magnuson. I would not have asked the doctor to serve on the Commission under any other arrangement. Every one of the 14 members had indicated a willingness to serve prior to the public announcement of the establishment of the Commission.  "The sole purpose of my Commission was to get representative opinions from both the medical profession and the lay public on the best means for alleviating the suffering of millions of Americans. The only condition on the selection of the Commission was a willingness on the part of each member to approach each problem with an open mind and weigh the facts and to suggest solutions to the problems. The Commission will operate in this framework and will have its first meeting in Washington next week."  3   3 A White House press release of January 15, 1952, stated in part, "The President's Commission on the Health Needs of the Nation, under the Chairmanship of Dr. Magnuson, completed its first session at noon today. The day and a half meeting was devoted largely to a discussion of the assignment given the commission by the President, which is to make a critical study of the total health requirements of the Nation, and to recommend courses of action to meet those needs ....  "The position of the American Medical Association was discussed at length by the commission, who felt that inasmuch as the other members of the commission did not officially represent any group, it is understandable that the American Medical Association did not wish to be officially represented. Therefore, it was agreed that another doctor should be added to the commission who was familiar with the policies of the American Medical Association but who would not officially represent that Association as a body."  See also Item 369. 
 Dr. Magnuson is the only one I refer to in here. Every time I said doctor, it was Dr. Magnuson.  4 on December 30, 1951, Dr. Gunnar Gundersen of LaCrosse, Wis., member of the Board of Trustees of the American Medical Association, requested that his name be removed from the list of appointees to the President's Commission on the Health Needs of the Nation. 
 Yes. 
 Yes, that's correct.  
 Well now, I want-- 
 He asked me about Mr. McGrath.  In response to all questions regarding continued drastic action--including "Is McGrath resigning?"--I propose the following: I am not going to answer that question.  There have been so many rumors, I can't possibly answer all of them. I made an announcement yesterday regarding the reorganization of the Bureau of Internal Revenue. 5  When I am ready, I will make further announcements. Until then I have nothing to say.  5 See Item 1 
 There have been so many rumors made I can't possibly spend my time answering those rumors. And it seems to me that announcements of that sort ought to come from the President of the United States. And when I get ready to make any announcements, I have always told you, and told you in plenty of time so that you can get it in the next day's paper, or that day's paper, if we have a morning press conference. 
 That bars questions that have any bearing on that subject at all. 
 He wants to get out, and I think probably some time this month I will accept his resignation.  6 W. Stuart Symington resigned as Administrator of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation on February 15, 1952. 
 Yes. 
 It was accepted strictly at his request, and on the date on which he requested that it be accepted.  7 Peter I. Bukowski resigned as Deputy Administrator of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation on December 31, 1951.  
 I made an agreement with the President of Mexico last year, that the Congress would act in regard to that labor agreement, and unless the Congress does act, there will be no agreement with Mexico. 
 Yes, I had an agreement with the President of Mexico that the matter would be submitted to the Congress for action, and unless they take the necessary action, there will be no negotiations with the Government of Mexico. 
 About the labor situation-- 
 down in the Southwest.  
 I am very sorry I can't give you any enlightenment on that. I will tell you when I am ready.  8  Representative Wayne L. Hays of Ohio. 
 No, I did not. I have given nobody to understand anything about any date with regard to that. I know what I am going to do, as I told you before, and when I get ready I will announce it.  9 Frank E. McKinney, chairman of the Democratic National Committee.  
 Mr. Churchill is very welcome. And I will extend to him as hearty a welcome as I know how to give to any visitor. There are a number of important things that we can discuss, and discuss profitably to both of us. And I am glad he is coming.  I don't know where all such foolish things as that originate. 
 I have a complete agenda, and it is not to be made public. We will issue a communique after the conferences are over, and you will be informed on exactly what took place.  10   10  See Items 616.  
 He just talked with me about tin. I listened.   
 I will talk with anybody-any Senator or any Member of the House of Representatives--on politics or any other subject they want to talk about.  
 Whenever I go to a conference, or whenever I anticipate a conference, I always have an agenda. And I have one now.  
 I don't think much of it.  I think it's a good plan, and I think it ought to go through.  11 Representative Robert L. Doughton of North Carolina, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.  
 I didn't say toward the end of the month. I said some time this month.
 Has nothing to do with any policy. Mr. Symington has been trying to get out of the Government for a year and a half. 
 I will make the announcement at the proper time.  
 Yes. It had been under consideration ever since the Hoover report.  12  There has been some violent opposition to it in the Congress, and we have been trying to overcome that opposition. We finally, I think, have gotten around to the point where an acceptable program is in the making and will go down to the Congress, and I am sure that they will approve.  12 The report on the Department of the Treasury by the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government is dated March 1949 . President Herbert Hoover was Chairman of the Commission which was terminated on June 12, 1949. 
 No, I told you it originated with the Hoover report, some 2 years ago, and has been under consideration ever since.  13 Representative Cecil R. King of California, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Administration of Internal Revenue Laws. 
 What's that?  Mr. Short: He said did it antedate the King hearings.  THE PRESIDENT. Oh, yes. I thought he said did it date from the King subcommittee hearings. It dates from the time of the Hoover report. 
 They want to keep them political appointees, that's what the difficulty is, and they have raised a good deal of fuss, some of them have, when we fired some of these fellows. 
 No, I didn't name any names. 
 Both. 
 No, I don't think they were. There may have been some civil service people that were fired, but most of them were collectors, who are appointees of the President.  
 That's all right.  
 I can't answer the question. 
 I can't answer the question, I said.  
 No, that is not to be commented on at the present time. We are in the same position, almost, as we were at the last press conference,  14  and I can make no comment on it.  14 See 1951 volume, this series, Item 300 .  
 No. We just discussed the Message on the State of the Union. I will see him as soon as he gets back here. Then we will talk politics, or business, or whatever the Congress wants to talk about. 
 No, I am not in a position to give you the dates on them yet.  
 Because that is my business.  
 I haven't heard from the Senator. He knows how to make an appointment. Mr. Connelly  15  is always on the telephone to answer those things.  15  Matthew J. Connelly, Secretary to the President.   Mr. Short: Mr. President, most of the people who were discharged were civil service employees--most of them were.  THE PRESIDENT. I see. Mr. Short informs me that most of the people who were discharged in the Internal Revenue Bureau were civil service people, but there were several top ones that were Presidential appointees that were discharged too.  
 What was the question, please? 
 Well, I don't care about answering questions on that line, but Judge Murphy accepted the appointment. Then after he got back to New York, he changed his mind and turned it down.  16 Judge Thomas F. Murphy of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York had been selected to head a proposed Presidential commission to probe and curb corruption in Government. 
 No, he did not submit any conditions, because I made all the conditions that were necessary before his acceptance. 
 Why, I will not--I don't care about answering that question. That is in the agenda that I said I didn't care to talk about. I will give you all the enlightenment possible as soon as I get around to it.  Merriman Smith, United Press Associations: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome, Smitty. Note: President Truman's two hundred and eighty-eighth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4:05 p.m. on Thursday, January 3, 1952. 
