 I have no special announcements to make. If you have any questions you think I can answer, why fire away.  
 Working on it and will shortly announce it. 
 Economic communication setup.  
 No comment. I have made comment in the form of messages on four different occasions. You can take anything you like out of any one of those messages. Still good today.  
 I can't answer that question until it gets here, because I don't know what's in it.  
 It has not come up to me yet. I will think of that, though, when it does.  
 Senator Ellender invited me to pay a visit to the South, and I told him nothing would please me better if it could be arranged, but I could make no definite appointments. 
 I will have to give you the same answer that I did to that other question. I can't tell whether I can go or not. I would like to go. I have been invited on these occasions in the past, for the same purpose, and couldn't go, but I would like to go if I could. 
 I can't promise.  
 I can't answer that question.  
 The Senate Foreign--Foreign Relations Committee 
--Appropriations Committee has a perfect right to ask for the presence of General MacArthur, if he can give them any information that will be valuable to them. And of course I would be happy to see him come and accommodate the Appropriations Committee. He has been invited on numerous occasions by me to return and make a personal report to me, but his business has always kept him in Japan. 
 Yes.  
 The arms embargo is under consideration by the United Nations, and I have no comment on it.  1 Dr. Chaim Weizmann, Provisional President of Israel. 
 It's an embargo by the United States made at the request of the Security Council of the United Nations, and it's a matter pending in the United Nations.  
 I can't comment on the legislation because it has not been formulated. You never can tell what a bill is going to be. Usually, when it is introduced it has everything in it but the kitchen stove, and when it comes out of committee it's something entirely different.  
 I cannot.  
 I am having that looked into. You see, that broadcast was not made by the State Department; it was made under a law passed by the Congress that private enterprise should control these broadcasts. I am having an investigation to see just who is at fault.  1 Senator Capehart read translations of several scripts prepared and broadcast in Spanish by the National Broadcasting Company under contract with the Voice of America. .  
 No I have not. 
 I have never had any communication from Mr. Stalin since Potsdam.  
 I'll comment on that when the bill comes before me. 
 I haven't seen the ruling of the Attorney General, and I know nothing about to what the ruling refers.  
 It was recommended in the last Budget Message. I signed that message, so undoubtedly it was an approval.  
 So far as I know, no application has been made. If one is made, it will be handled in the usual manner and through the usual departments.  
 When General MacArthur signed the surrender document in Japan, I invited him to come home and accept a medal out here on the lawn. Admiral Nimitz, General Wainwright, General Marshall, and General Eisenhower have accepted, and he wired me that conditions were such that he thought he should remain in Japan.  On another occasion, a year or so after that, I told him that at his discretion I would be happy to have him return to the country and pay a visit to his relatives and his friends, and also pay a visit to the White House along the lines that the other commanders had paid to the White House. And the same answer was returned by General MacArthur. 
 That was about a year later, I judge. 
 No, no, he didn't think it was proper for him to leave at that time, and being he was there on the spot, he had entire discretion in the matter. He was not ordered to come home. It was just merely an invitation. 
 That is not necessary. 
 He is in absolute control out there on the order that I gave. And you can't interfere with things of that sort, if you are going to have operation of it. I believe in delegating the authority and then backing the man up. And that is what we have done with General MacArthur. 
 Certainly. If it is proper for him to leave Japan to testify before the Appropriations Committee, that is perfectly proper.  
 Well, I will answer that as to the condition of the country at the time, just as I did last fall. I can't answer that now.  
 The only comment I have to make is that I am glad the dispute was settled by collective bargaining. 
 I know nothing about the details of the contract, and I can't comment on that.  
 No, I have no comment. I know he must be all right, or Mr. McGrath wouldn't have selected him.  
 That's a lie out of the whole cloth.  
 I have no information on that. 
 The investigation as ordered was at the time--very early in the game. There has been no report on it. There is no disloyalty there.  
 He did not suggest a loan. He said he would like to have a loan, just like every other country.  If you know of any other country that wouldn't like to have a loan, I wish you would name them. 
 He did not. We did not go into details. We talked about the question just as with you gentlemen here this afternoon. 
 There is the Export-Import Bank, and there is the World Bank. They make loans of that kind all the time. 
 He did not discuss the details with me. All I know about it is what he says in the paper. 
 I can't answer the question. Those sources of supply are for money in this country as well as the Treasury of the United States. 
 He did not. He said he wanted a loan. Period.  
 You have to have that?  I simply told him that if the loan was necessary, after the state was fully in existence, he would have to go through the usual channels that such things go through.  
 I don't know that there should be any difference. 
 The United Nations Council requested an arms embargo several months ago, and we have complied with the request, in the interests of peace and to prevent bloodshed, and that request is still in effect. 
 I don't know about that. You will have to look up the record of the United Nations Security Council. 
 I don't think so. I think we are in much better shape to ship arms than any other country. 
 Well now, let's wait and see what the United Nations--what our representative in the United Nations decides to do. Whatever he does will have my backing. 
 No, there isn't.  
 No. General Marshall commented on that I think yesterday to good effect.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
