  The first announcement I want to make is that O. Max Gardner will be Ambassador to Great Britain.   And there is another short statement I want to make about the State Department and this building over here. There has been some misapprehension about this building over here. It is still the headquarters of the State Department. The State Department has been housed in 36 buildings here in Washington, and we are trying to get that scattered number of the people who are in those 36 buildings, as nearly as we can, in this building up on Virginia Avenue. This building over here will still continue to be the State Department building, the headquarters of the Secretary and any offices he wants to have in it.   Then I want to say, so that it won't be necessary to ask the question, that there will be no comment and no statement on the coal situation at this time. It is pending in the court. Now I am ready for questions. \. All right. \. I will make no comment on the coal situation. \. No comment. He wanted to know if I was going to make any effort to produce coal. I will make no comment on the coal situation at this time.  \. Well, that is true, but it doesn't necessarily refer entirely to labor. That refers to everything with which this country is confronted. Of course, I will send as strong a message as possible to the Congress, so that we can cooperate and get something done.  \. Pete, 1  Mr. Wyatt and I are having a conference after this press conference, and if there is anything to announce, it will be announced after that meeting with Mr. Wyatt.  1 Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. \. Your guess is as good as mine.  \. That is absolutely correct. \. It means that the President is willing to, as far as he can, help the United Nations get the Presidio site if they want it. It is up to them to make the decision. I have no preference.  \. As soon as he can get ready, I am certain.  \. Had a most pleasant social visit with Prime Minister Smuts. One of the most interesting ones I have had since I have been President. He's a grand old man. Purely a social call.  \. No comment. He told me that, too, but I have no comment on it.  \. We are trying to work that out. As soon as it is completed, why I will give you the facts just as they are. It isn't ready yet.  \. I haven't heard about it.  \. No, not at the present time. I am not ready to announce that yet.  \. I don't think it's necessary.  \. Well, that is yet to be determined. As soon as I have those details straightened out, I will inform you exactly how the procedure will follow. \. No, I cannot. It is in the course of preparation, and no one-- \. --.nobody knows what it will be until it is finished. No one can talk intelligently about it until it's in shape.  \. Not that I know of.  \. Haven't heard about it.  \. Mr. Acheson stated my views yesterday. 1  1 As reported in the New York Times of November 30, Dean Acheson, Under Secretary of State, said that the United States supported Assistant Secretary Spruille Braden's policy on Argentina.  \. The Federal Communications ? \. Well, I will make the appointment as soon as I can find the man to fill the job.  \. Well, Ambassador McNutt, I think, is here in the interest of getting certain details worked out on a purchasing program which we have already tried to implement. We are helping him all we can.  \. The White House has three heating plants. I don't know whether any of them are run by coal or not. I know that one is run by oil. I don't even know where they are.  \. Well, it has been suggested, Pete, that you furnish a copy- - \. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's ninetieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, December 3, 1946. 
