 Please be seated.   I want to read you a reminder, then you can ask me questions.   "I just want to remind everyone that next Wednesday is Memorial Day, and that we all have a duty on that day to pray for permanent peace as well as to honor the heroes of past wars.  "In the proclamation which I issued on May 23, 1950, pursuant to a joint resolution of the Congress, I proclaimed each succeeding Memorial Day as a day of prayer for permanent peace, and suggested 11 o'clock in the morning, eastern daylight saving time, as an appropriate time for each American according to his own religious faith, to beg divine aid in bringing enduring peace to a troubled world.  "I called then, and I call again upon the press, radio, television, and other media of public information to participate in this observance.  "This proclamation was first issued before the Communist aggression which made it necessary for the free nations to turn back the invaders in Korea. With our men, and the men of the other free nations, fighting this Memorial Day in Korea, it is more important than ever that we join--every one of us--in praying for the peace which is our objective."  You will have copies of this available when you go out, and I hope you will see that it gets proper circulation. I am ready for questions now.  \. No. That is a matter that the committee has to pass on. Either city is good. I have been in both places and had a good time. Nominated a winning ticket in both places!   1 The Western States Conference and the Midwest Conference of the Democratic Party met in Denver on May 23 and 24, and the Democratic National Committee met there on May 25. See also Item 110. \. Well, Philadelphia was a little more controversial, but it came out all right. 2  2 The 1948 convention of the Democratic Party was held in Philadelphia. \. Well, I am not sure about that. That depends on your viewpoint.   \. That is mighty nice of him, and I appreciate what he has to say.  \. That is still good. \. He wanted to know if the ruckus kicked up over a great general from the Far East had changed my mind as to my ideas on the Presidency for the next 4 years. It has no effect on it whatever. \. The season is still on. I said it has no effect on it. The season is still on.  \. Yes. That is correct. But that doesn't close the gate to anybody else. You see, the Democratic Party is a little different from other parties. Anybody in the world who wants to, can run for the nomination for President in the Democratic Convention, and a lot of people do, always. \. Mrs. Truman has never been very enthusiastic about my holding public office, but she has had to put up with it for 30 years. And I don't blame her at all. She and I understand each other. \. Well, I think I told you-all you people that are interested in that sort of thing, that I would give you plenty of notice so that you could get your suitcases 'packed in plenty of time. Now, when the time comes around, I will make the announcement-if it does come around--so that you will have plenty of time to get ready to go with me, and I know all of you will want to go.   3 See Item 110.  \. I didn't understand the question?  4 Myron M. Cowen, U.S. Ambassador to the Philippines. \. Well, I will see him. Whenever an Ambassador wants to see me, I always see him. I saw him when he first came back.  \. Well, of course, that matter would have to take care of itself at the time, but the objective would be to tell the truth about domestic and foreign policy, just as I did in 1948. When the people have the facts, you can't fool them. \. Well now, that is a hypothetical question, and not one that I can answer at this press conference. \. Well, I have heard something about that. There was something like that going on in 1948, if I am not mistaken.   \. I don't know anything about any such report. I get a report from the Economic Advisers--who are there for that purpose--every week, and those reports are always available for--  5 Charles E. Wilson, Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization and Chairman of the National Advisory Board on Mobilization Policy. \. That report has been under consideration. I have no comment to make on it as yet, because I have not analyzed it as completely as I want to.  6 See Item 44.  \. I think the Secretary of State answered that question very fully yesterday. 7     7 At his press conference on May 23, Secretary of State Dean Acheson stated that the policy of the United States toward China had not changed, and that the United States Government still hoped to be able to negotiate a Korean peace settlement with the Communist regime in Peiping.  \. I want to answer you again as I did the other gentleman over here, that the Secretary of State answered that very fully yesterday. 8  If you will read his comments from his press conference, you will have the answer.  8  At his news conference on May 23, Secretary Acheson stated, "We believe very earnestly that the controversy between the British Government and the Iranian Government is a controversy which can be and should be settled by negotiation between those parties, and we indicated some of the principles which we thought were important in controlling the general conduct of those negotiations... The United States is the friend of, and is deeply concerned in the welfare and strength of both parties to the controversy." The text of his remarks on the subject is printed in the Department of State Bulletin .  \. Well, if you would read a little history, you will find that the first term of any President is the term to which he is elected. \. Yes, but that wouldn't make any difference, for the simple reason that I am exempted from that amendment, anyway--specifically. \. Well, let's cross that bridge when the time comes to do it. \. No. I will do that at a later date.  \. That is correct. \. I have them under consideration.  9  Lloyd P. Stryker and Edward J. Dimock, New York attorneys. Mr. Dimock was appointed to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on June 11, 1951. \. Yes, I have them under consideration along with several others. And as soon as I come to a conclusion on it, I will announce it in plenty of time. I am very careful about the appointment of judges to the Federal Courts. It is, I think, one of the most important things that the President of the United States does, because that is where the people come in contact with the Government under law. That is one of the greatest things that our Government stands for, is Government under law. And I am exceedingly careful about the appointment of Federal judges, and that is the reason I have hesitated about making these appointments. These gentlemen that have been recommended by the Bar Association are good men, but I think others are under consideration also.  \. No, I can't tell you a thing about it because I don't know anything about it.  \. Last week I made my position very clear on that controversy, and I have no further comment to make to that.  10  Senator Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin, ranking Republican on the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations which was holding joint hearings with the Senate Armed Services Committee on the removal of General MacArthur from his command in the Far East.  \. Not at all. The commanders in the field have absolute control of the tactics and strategy, and they always have.  11 Gen. James A. Van Fleet, new commander of the 8th Army in Korea.  \. Well now, that is a very, very delicate question you have asked me.  And I am not ready as yet to enter into a controversy with the Congress.  You can never tell what the record of a Congress will be until that Congress has adjourned for the period for which it has been meeting. Now, I never want to comment on the record of the Congress, because if you will remember very carefully, the same question was asked me about the 81st Congress, and I told you then that the record of the Congress is not the record until it is made. Now this session is not over yet, by any means, and there is still another session of the 82d Congress that takes place on the 3d of January 1952, and therefore I don't want to make any comments on the situation.  I have been very much worried about the necessity for the extension of the emergency matters that will expire the 30th day of June. It is absolutely essential that the Defense Production Act with its amendments be in operation by that time. 12  The Congress has been exceedingly busy on hearings of one sort and another, and there is just too much work for any one man to do in every field down there, I know, because I spent 10 years down there. And so I will wait to make the comment on your question when we have the results.  12  See Item 176. \. I am very much worried about them, but I do think they will certainly get around to take care of that situation before the time expires.  \. What is that? \. I have no comment on that: That is a matter that the Congress itself must take care of. That is out of my bailiwick. You see, I am the Executive, and the legislative branch of the Government has to tend to its own business.  \. No, I haven't. I would like very much to go. I have never missed one, and I had hoped conditions would be so that I could go. I have had about as much pressure on that from my friends as I have had on any other one thing. I can't tell you now whether I will go or not. It depends on the situation here, of course.  13 Reunion of the 35th Division Association. \. Ninth of June.   I do have a comment that I want to make to you, that I want to have an understanding with you on. Some of my good friends who write columns, and whom I read with pleasure, have been saying lately that I had a "cocky" attitude. Now, I don't like that word, because I think it is "confident" that they want to say. And if you remember, after the election in 1948, I was exceedingly careful not to appear cocky, or as if I wanted to press somebody down. I am not in that mood now.  I think, however, that the program and policies that the Executive has been endeavoring to put into effect are right, and I think that the people of the United States and of the world believe that they are right. And I am confident that those policies will go into effect legislatively and otherwise because they are right. And I don't want to assume any cocky attitude toward anybody, no matter who he is. I just want to make that plain--because I don't feel that way, and never have. \. Yes, the whole program is based on world peace; and both the domestic and the foreign policy are policies which we hope will cause world peace and prevent a third world war, which would in effect, I believe, destroy freedom and everything else in the world. We would probably go back to the Dark Ages if we have another world war. I don't want to have it. That's all I have worked for for 6 years, is peace in the world. \. Well, I have no objection. Talk it over with Joe Short,  14  and if he works it out with you, it will be all right.  14 Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President. \. Yes, you may--you may.  Mr. Short: The decision won't be made in time for you to dictate.  THE PRESIDENT. I have no objection to that because that is the way I feel, and I want you to understand it. Nothing in my life amounts to anything but world peace. That is all I am working for. \. Talk to Joe. He is my Press Secretary. Mr. Short: I think we had better wait until this is over. 15  15 On the same day the White House made public a transcript of the President's statement Item  beginning with the words, "I do have a comment" and concluding with, "That is the reason I don't want a third world war." \. I hope that is true, but you know what happens to governments and what happens to people. And if a third world war should come, we will not be in the position that we have been in the other two. We will be a battlefront. We can look forward to destruction here, just as the other countries in the Second World War. And you never can tell what will happen to people when that takes place.  I think we have enough intelligence and energy to meet any situation with which we are confronted, but I am not willing to take a chance on it. That is the reason I don't want a third world war.  \. I have no doubt the Senator will come to see me and tell me about his trip. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are entirely welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and sixty-fifth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, May 24, 1951. 
