  I have just signed an Executive order, seizing the facilities of the Great Lakes Towing Company of Cleveland, Ohio, because of a labor dispute. 
 --Towing Company of Cleveland, Ohio. The mimeographed order is available when you leave here. 
 The ODT--Office of Defense Transportation.   I have named the following persons to the Interstate Commerce Commission as reappointments. William E. Lee of Idaho-- 
--Lee. 
 L-e-e. And William J. Patterson of North Dakota-both Republicans, and reappointments.  And I have named Lynn U. Stambaugh of North Dakota as a Republican Director on the Export-Import Bank.  All the appointments seem to be nonpartisan this morning.  
 Lynn U. Stambaugh. 
 Lynn U. Stambaugh of the Legion, I believe, is the rest of it. 
 There is still one more Republican vacancy. 
 No. The Democrats have all been filled. Martin, the other day, was just made Chairman of that Export-Import Bank; and it is, in my opinion, one of the most important organizations we have for the welfare of the country and the world. 
 That's what it means. At least not in that capacity.   I have got a statement here that will be interesting to you. It will--you will be furnished with mimeographed copies as you go out.   "The first 100 days of reconversion. We have made the following progress:  "On manpower. The great part of the layoffs from war plants has now been completed, except in the shipyards. And employment in non-war activities has increased since V-J Day. Total employment has now returned to the V-J Day level and is expected to continue to rise.  "Unemployment, so far, is less than had been expected. This means that the disruption of our economy has been less drastic than anticipated. However, we are still in a transition period. The rapid demobilization of the armed forces will undoubtedly increase the unemployment total over the next few months.  "During these first 100 days, 3,500,000 men and women have been demobilized. We have stepped up the rate to 50,000 a day, and expect to continue at this pace.  "Plant reconversion."--And this is exceedingly interesting, in view of some of the things that have been said.--"The job of reconverting our plants from war to peace is virtually completed. Ninety-three percent of all plants have been cleared in 60 days or less after request." 
 That's true. 
 That is taken into consideration. 
 That's right. We are trying to prevent deflation just as much as inflation. 
 No, I do not.  
 They are not ready yet. 
 No, I do not. 
 I had some conversation on that subject, and was not opposed to that situation. I was Vice President then. 
 I do not. The conditions have changed. And if that resolution is passed, there isn't any use trying to have a fact finding commission finding facts and making recommendations.  
 I do. 
 The ones that are usually used--the Labor Department's index. 
 The very controversial one. It's the only one we have. 
 The only official one we have. 
 They are still under consideration. 
 They are. It is the most difficult thing to try to get controls that will work. That is difficult.  
 That's a fear--[ inaudible words]. 
 I do not, and I will discuss that situation at a later date, fully and completely. 
 No, not necessarily. That may be at a press conference. When the turmoil gets hot enough, I will talk with you about it. 
 Well, it's stirred up. We should let it settle a little bit.  
 It would hold it back, of course. 
 I will handle that situation when it appears before me.  
 We will hope to reach that agreement today. I think maybe the Secretary of State will announce it.  
 I would. But that requires a four-power agreement in order to make that revision. 
 Yes. 
 Yes. We will make an effort to approach the situation. 
 Our Government alone ? Well, I can't answer that, because it is still in the negotiating stage. 
 Certain phases of it. 
 That's right. It's--it's a detail proposition that will have to be worked out on the ground by the four powers. 
 No, I can't. 
 That is one of the things that will be under discussion. 
 No, sir, it will not. I am not in favor of special conferences, because I want to see the United Nations do its job. The League of Nations was ruined by a lot of special conferences. I am not in favor of special conferences, and never have been. 
 No, not necessarily. I can't answer those questions intelligently, because it's a matter of negotiation, and I don't want to be specific because it might ruin the negotiations. 
 It will, very shortly. 
 I think some time in the next 90 days--I hope. 
 That's what that United Nations is for; and I want to see it work, and we are behind it wholeheartedly to see that it does work. 
 I think so. Most of them are, I think. 
 No, I wouldn't make any exceptions because I can't speak for the other nations. They must speak for themselves.  
 No, they have not. 
 I do, of course.  
 I don't think so. I have a drawer full of resignations here--[laughter]--a lot of which I have refused to accept, and some of which I have had to accept. I don't know whether his is in there or not. 
 No, I wouldn't. I will tell you about them as they come up. 
 No. 
 It was put in the drawer this morning. It just reached me this morning only. 
 I would rather not express an opinion on the matter.  
 No, I cannot, because they are still being worked out. I will give them to you in toto whenever that is accomplished. 
 He is Special Envoy to China for a special job, and it is temporary. 
 I can't answer that intelligently yet. He will go and carry out the policy which we have always had in China. We might state it more specifically than it has been stated. 
 No, I will not.   
 If the United Nations Organization works as it should, there shouldn't be any reason for a Big Three conference or any other sort of conference outside the United Nations. 
 Well, Senator Fulbright has a right to his opinion the same as I have a right to mine. 
 I think it's playing by music.  
 Very shortly, in 3 or 4 days. 
 That is up to them.  
 I am neutral.  
 I have to be neutral. One half is Army, and the other half is Navy. 
 I will make an announcement on that very shortly.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
