  I am sending down the name of William J. Kennedy of Cleveland, Ohio, to be the Chairman of the Railroad Retirement Board--the one that Murray Latimer left.   I want to call your attention this morning to Mr. Snyder's sixth report on reconversion. I have read the report twice, and it is a most interesting report. Shows that production of goods and services for the civilian market is higher today than ever before in the Nation's history, in war or in peace, and is still going up.  And it goes into detail on the--the equipment after V-J Day; and the wage-price policy is being translated into action without losing vital ground to inflation. We must not be complacent about these good signs of progress, however.  I have got a mimeographed release here, 1  which I would like for all of you to read carefully; and then it wouldn't hurt any of you to spend your time reading that report. That is the best answer to the rumors and things that have been made about the wage price policy and the reconversion policy which has been pursued by the administration since V-J Day. I think it's the best answer that you can possibly have on the subject. It covers the whole front--take you a little while to read through. I read it in half an hour, and I read it again in another half an hour. It's worth reading. Anybody have any questions?  See Item 73.   Well, there are certain individual things--shirts, for instance, that you mention, that distribution has not been as--the distribution has not been as good as it should have been--and a great many other things, but you must understand that all shelves--all inventories were down.   And I had one startling thing told to me just this morning: that it takes 32,000 automobiles for each dealer to put one in his window that doesn't, that is not for sale. It takes 32,000 automobiles to put one in each dealer's window for show purposes.  Mr. Snyder: Mr. President, on those textile things, the CPA and the OPA will issue some regulations within the next week that are going to further supply the low end of textile articles. CPA is directing certain yardage into the low end products, and OPA is making--has made, in the last 10 days, some additional adjustments in pricing, which will certainly build that up--   Textiles and other things. Mr. Snyder: Men's and boys' clothing.   Your guess is as good as mine. I have got some surplus shirts, if you don't wear them too big.   I have some 15 1/2, but it's 33.    I can't answer that. I suppose it's--as soon as they get enough woolens and things of that sort, you will be able to buy two pairs of pants, as you formerly could before the war.  Mr. Snyder: Up to now two pants are not in.   Mr. Snyder says up to now the two pants are not in yet.    Yes, it has been considered. And it is being considered. All those things have a hand in the control of inflation. We are doing everything we possibly can to prevent inflation. That is our biggest problem at the present time.   I didn't say that the Government was considering, I said we had been doing that. And the Secretary of the Treasury has been working on a fiscal policy of the country right straight along. There is no immediate change contemplated right now.    A prolonged coal strike? I can answer that categorically. It would knock the whole thing out. The steel strike cost us about seven million tons of steel production that go to make rails and rods, and things of that sort. That is about one-ninth of the yearly production.   Seven million.  That is rails and rods, and things of that sort. That is not pig iron. That would be eleven million tons with pig iron.    Not at this time. I will talk to you about that a little later.    Well, the Labor Department has a mediator with the operators and with Mr. Lewis, and they are working diligently trying to arrive at a settlement.    I will give you a statement on that at the next press conference, and go into detail with you. It is not quite ready yet, and I don't want to put out any guesses.    I am not familiar with the Russell--you mean--  The Case-Russell--that will upset the applecart if it goes through. I have said that to the Congress.    I can't answer that. I am not familiar with it at all. I am not familiar with that at all. I would like to answer it if I could, but I can't.    No, I can't. I will tell you at a later date, but not now.    I think--I think that there has been a great deal of comment on that. I read an article in the Baltimore Sun this morning that seemed to me to be a very good article on the subject. It's on the editorial page of the Baltimore Sun.    I can't answer that now.    Yes, it has.   No, I haven't. I haven't had a chance as yet.    No.    I haven't thought about it. That is a matter for the government of the District of Columbia.    No. I haven't any comment to make on it because I haven't gone into the details. I used to know something about shirts, but I don't any more     No, I haven't.   No, I haven't.    The Army is acting to meet the situation, and I think have met it very creditably. We will take care of our own, just as we are trying to take care of the other people in the world.    I can't answer that. I imagine that the demand is so great that it can't be filled. I didn't know we had plenty during the war. My family didn't.   Of course the nylon demand is so much different--that's different. Mr. Snyder: That is still a major issue.   That's different. I am not familiar with it. Sorry I can't answer that.    Discussed everything that had to do with New York politics, and I listened with a lot of interest.     Yes.   I will take care of that when the bill comes up to me. I just listened to Governor Arnall discuss his views on the subject.  You're welcome.
