 Please be seated.   I am very happy this morning to greet the visitors from Latin America. We are glad to have them as guests this morning. I appreciate their coming here.  I have a couple of releases which will be handed to you after this press conference is over.  One is on the adoption of Senate Resolution 99,  1  and the other one is in regard to the request for funds for the Voice of America.  2    1  See Item 71.   2  See Item 72.  Both of those statements will be available to you after the press conference is over. Any questions in regard to those two things will be answered in those two releases.  Now I am ready for any questions you want-- 
 It's the resolution that has to do with the sending of troops to Europe. 
 I will listen to them, of course. I will answer them if I feel like it. 
 The only thing under consideration in that resolution is the sending of four divisions, which was approved. 
 Well, the situation will develop as we go along. The Senate and the House have always been consulted in any major policy, and that situation will develop in the usual manner. Every part of our foreign policy has been carried out after careful consideration and consultation with both Houses of the Congress from the beginning, since I have been President on April 12, 1945. The policy had been carried out by President Roosevelt, and I continued the policy.  
 It has not been put up to me yet, so I am not in a position to answer your question. I don't know anything about it.  
 I think the crisis under which we issued the Executive order creating the situation with which we are faced, is just as it was in the beginning.  3  And it is necessary for us to carry out our defense program--even more necessary now than it was then--because we are nearing a situation which will accomplish the purpose for which we started out.   3  Proclamation 2914 of December 16, 1950, "Proclaiming the Existence of a National Emergency" .  
 I have no comment on Speaker Rayburn's statement, but the Speaker is a truthful man. 
 I have no further comment to make on Speaker Rayburn's comment. 
 No further comment. 
 It is just as great as it ever has been. We were faced with that in the Berlin airlift. We were faced with it in Greece and Turkey. We were faced with it in Iran, when the troops of the Allies and Russia moved out of Iran. We were faced with it in Korea as an actual fact on June 25th. That situation has been a dangerous one for the last 5 years--last 4 years, I will say. 
 I hope there never will be a third world war. That is what we are trying to prevent. That is the reason for all this preparation.  
 Well, I think I have a better chance to get concrete information on that than I have on the other--[laughter]-- although I have more information than anybody else in this country on that subject. I can't give you a tip on the Derby, however.  
 Yes, that is in the course of preparation now.   4    4  See Items 91, 176, 199. 
 I can't tell you what the recommendation will contain until I have finished writing it, but as soon as it is ready I will see that all of you have a copy of it.  
 Why, of course. 
 What's the matter, May?  5     5  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 All right--go ahead. 
 Well, I haven't read the article. I probably won't read it. The only comment that has been made on it was made by Mr. Short, and I back him up in that comment.   6    6  "What Truman Would Do to Congress," by Jonathan Daniels, a former aide to Presidents Roosevelt and Truman. The article appeared in the April 14th edition of Colliers' magazine. 
 Of course it is.   
 I have no comment to make on that. As I said awhile ago, I haven't read the article and I know nothing about the-- 
 Yes, I know--and I don't intend to read it--I am not interested in it. People have a right to say what they please about me if they want to. I have no objection.   7  The article by John Hersey, entitled "The Wayward Press; President Truman's Press Conference, November 30th" appeared in the New Yorker magazine on December 16, 1950. For the press conference to which the article referred, see 1950 volume, this series, Item 295.  
 I can't answer a question like that because the meeting has not taken place yet. After it is over, I will tell you what took place.  
 Why, of course. He wouldn't think of coming to this country without coming to see me, and I wouldn't think of going to Great Britain without going to see him, either.  
 All right, May. 
 May, no such plans have been made, because my presence is needed right here in this country. The fact that I went to Key West gave a lot of people spasms and jitters, so I couldn't think about going outside the country!   8  Writer and columnist.  
 I can't comment on that, and I don't intend to answer any further questions on it at all.  
 Tony,  9   let's wait until developments take place. Your question will answer itself.    9  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  
 Mr. Snyder spoke for the administration when he appeared before the committee. You will get your answer from Mr. Snyder's statement to the committee.   10    10  On April 2 Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder, testifying before the House Committee on Ways and Means, stated that the administration was going to reduce its request for additional taxes to $10 billion.  
 That is a question that cannot be answered because it is a military strategy question, and it is not a question that I can answer. 
 He asked me if General MacArthur had been authorized to bomb bases in Manchuria, and I said that is a military strategy question that I cannot answer.  Tony, how do you decipher all those things? I see you are messing it all up. You write a little in one place, and then you go down and write in between. 
 No, I haven't.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
