 Please be seated.  I have an announcement or two that I will give you, then you can ask questions, if you like.   At 10:30 to 11, January 15th, I am going to make a broadcast to the Nation on the radio, and I thought you would like to know about that. 1   1 See Item 378.   Then I have got a statement here. The Secretary of Agriculture 2  announced that he was applying some additional restrictions to imports of dairy products, in accordance with the provisions of 104 of the Defense Production Act. I think that is the wrong thing to do. I am not in favor of it at all. And you will have a copy of this statement on the subject, when you get ready to go out. 3    2 Charles F. Brannan.  3 See Item 360. 
 The Secretary of Agriculture announced yesterday that he was applying some additional restrictions to imports of dairy products, in accordance with the provisions of section 104 of the Defense Production Act. 
 I don't approve of it. 
 Oh, yes. He is in accord with this statement that I am issuing. He is only following the law because he has to. 
 I don't approve of section 104 in the first place. That gets to the meat of the whole thing. 
 That's right--within the law. 
 No, no it doesn't. I don't try to repeal any laws because I haven't got that power. I have been accused of it, though.   
 I don't know. It isn't up to me yet.  4 See Item 362.  
 Talk about the state of the Nation. You will know. I will give it to you in time so you can inform yourselves in time to write all kinds of stories about it, but not before I make the speech. 
 I don't know--Roger Tubby:  5  Yes, it will.  THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it will. Roger Tubby: All networks.  THE PRESIDENT. Roger says it will.  5  Roger Tubby, Assistant Press Secretary.  
 It looks like any other year to me. I just have to work 17 hours a day all the time. I don't see any difference. 
 Well, I will tell you about that in the State of the Union Message. 
 I do not intend to make a personal appearance on the State of the Union Message, but that appearance on the radio and television is not in lieu of that. I would have done that, anyway, if I had appeared there in person.  
 Well, I am not in a position to be a prophet. I am neither a pollster nor a columnist, so I don't make any predictions. 
 Yes, I think that is true-probably better.  
 I am making it just because I want to. That is good enough reason. 
 Yes, that is probable. You will find out, though. There isn't going to be any mystery. I am going to release it so you will have plenty of time to read it.  
 No comment.  
 Well now, I don't want to make any prophecies, but I am of the opinion that if Senator Taft has his way, that is what will happen.   
 Just because I feel that way. I know all the facts behind the curtain, a lot of things that I can't talk about publicly. I just feel that the chances are even better than they were the first day of January last year. 
 Yes.  
 I have no comment on any comment by anybody else on somebody else.   6 James A. Farley, former Postmaster General and former chairman of the National Democratic Committee. 
 I think very highly of Mr. Farley. I always have.  
 I was referring to the cold War 
 --all around the world. All around the world.  
 About the only resolution I can think of is, I hope the Lord will give me power to prevent me from swearing at the newspapers-  
 What's that? What's that? 
 No. I have always been in that same frame of mind when it comes to the vast majority. You see, 90 percent of them have always been against me.  
 Well, you will receive a mimeographed copy of the whole statement, which will cover nearly any question you choose to ask. 
 The Secretary of Agriculture had to carry out the law. He was obeying the law. That is what he had to do.  
 I know nothing about it. It hasn't come up to me. If they don't, it will be a wonder, because it comes in every once in a while.  
 I don't know whether it is or not. I am not sure about it. 
 I am not sure about that.  But the recommendations on the state of the Union will have to be made by the new President. That is the reason I am not going down there. My State of the Union Message will be a statement on conditions as they exist, without any recommendations from me as to what ought to be done. 
 Yes. In the Inaugural Address of the new President, he will outline the legislative program, which is proper and right. 
 I don't think I ought to outline one.  
 No. None has come to me.  
 I read the brief on it. I think it is a very good thing. When I was in the Senate I was terribly put out with filibusters, and the Senate ought to find out some way to control its legislative action. I hope they will.  
 No, not publicly. Unless it was something that I had that I could put into effect, in which case I would act immediately.   Q: Mr. President, have you any thoughts you want to convey to Prime Minister Churchill when he comes over here ?  THE PRESIDENT. The Prime Minister is coming to pay a courtesy call on me. I expect to have dinner with him that night, and I suppose we will discuss shoes, ships, and sealing wax and things, just like we always do. 
 I don't know of anything. He is a very courteous gentleman, and he and I are good friends. I suppose he just wants to maybe discuss some historical events in which we both took part. 
 I don't think so. 
 Thank you all. A Happy New Year to all of you. Note: President Truman's three hundred and twenty second news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, December 31, 1952. 
