 Please be seated.   I have a letter to the Vice President on the tax bill for release. It is ready and will be handed out to you after the conference. It will explain a great many questions that you may ask me here much better than I can do it off-the-cuff. 1 Any questions ? I am ready.  1  See Item 228.  
 Yes. When you are in the position to enforce those agreements, they will be kept. That is the reason for the defense program.  2  See Item 225.  I wish I had the time to tell you all the things that have happened since the Germans folded up. 
 That's a question I can't answer. We will have to wait for results to find out whether that is true or not.  3 The reporter was referring to the conference for the conclusion of the Treaty or Peace with Japan, held at San Francisco September 4--8, 1951; the seventh session of the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, held at Ottawa, Canada, September 15-20, 1951, at which Greece and Turkey were admitted to membership; and a speech by Senator Brien McMahon of Connecticut, Chairman of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, on the floor of the Senate on September 18, in which he called for increased allocations of funds for atomic development and production. 
 There is a possibility, a stronger possibility than ever, I think, if we stick to our knitting and go ahead with the defense program. 
 Peace. 
 Our knitting. 
 That's an old Missouri phrase. And go ahead with the defense program.  What did you want to ask me? You got up just as he did.  
 His name hasn't come up to me.  
 Under the circumstances it is necessary. And I dislike it very much. That is what we organized the United Nations for--was to argue these things out without the use of force--but it has become impossible. Korea is the example. 
 I can name you several examples if you want them: Greece, Turkey, Korea, and Berlin. Trieste in the beginning. 
 To our ability to meet force with force. That is all we are aiming at. We don't want to misuse that force. Our idea is a free and happy world. That is what we are going to continue to fight for. 
 I didn't say that. That is what brought on the Korean thing.  
 I can't comment on that.  
 They were requested by the opposition, and we are willing to put forth every effort possible to get a peaceful solution without killing any more people. That's the why and wherefore for it.  
 I am always in favor of getting the truth in these investigations, and I hope that they will go ahead and try to get the truth.  4 Newspaperman and former member of the Communist Party who testified before several congressional committees on the Communist attempt to infiltrate the United States Government.  
 Well now, I am happy to have Mr. Flynn's opinion, because I think he is a very able political prognosticator-[ laughter ]--but I have no comment to make on your question.   5 Edward I. Flynn, chairman of the Democratic County Committee of Bronx County, New York City. 
 I have no comment to make on the question.  
 He has one.  Gave it to him on his first appointment, as I do all the ambassadors.  
 Now, I don't feel like commenting on the operations of the committee until they get through. Then I will give you all the comments you want.  6 William M. Boyle, Jr., chairman of the Democratic National Committee.  
 No. I have no comment. I appointed those judges, and I am the appointive power. 
 I appointed the judges, and I have the appointive power. The Senate has a right to confirm or reject the appointments. They have not rejected them. They have just refused to report them out. 7  7 See Item 165 .  
 I don't know anything about the proposition, therefore I can't comment on it.  8  Dr. Andrija Artukovic, government official in Croatia during World War II, was arrested in California and held until September 19, 1951, when he was released on $50,000 bail. On July 14, 1952, he was freed by a Federal court which denied the Yugoslav request for extradition, stating that there was no treaty covering the case.  
 That is not a rejection. 
 Well, no. I don't expect further action by that committee. 
 I don't expect further action by the committee. 
 No, I do not. I am satisfied with the ones I sent.  
 No comment. You will be informed in plenty of time what my program will be for next year. But I am not ready to tell you now. I told you once before: I know what I am going to do, but I am not going to tell you.  
 Oh, some time before the convention meets. 
 Yes. That's the one I am interested in.  
 Every good Democrat ought to be interested in the platform of his committee.  
 I didn't understand it. What are you trying to get at ? 
 Well, that is for the committee to decide.  
 What's a chairman of the national committee for? 
 What does the chairman of the National Democratic Committee do but be kind to people who come to town, or want introductions? That's a part of the job of the Democratic national chairman. It has been carried out by every one that has ever been there. It is not right for him, though, to take fees for operations of that kind. There is a distinction and a difference. 
 Yes, it would. 
 Even these volunteer workers. 
 No sir.  
 I don't see how you can be puzzled. 
 I have done my part. I didn't create the impasse. 
 Well, all right. Let the Senate take the responsibility, or at least the Senate committee, that is. The Senate has not acted--as I told you. 
 Not unless the committee makes a report. You see, it takes two-thirds to discharge a committee in the Senate. 
 I don't think any person who is connected with the Democratic National Committee, be he a volunteer or otherwise, has any business taking fees from anybody for what he does for them as a member of the national committee. 
 No. My impression is that he did not. And I have got his word for it. And I believe it.  
 Yes, I agree with that. 
 Here is what the difficulty is. I can give you a little lecture on politics.  There are no issues on which these people can attack the administration. The country is prosperous. We are carrying out a foreign policy which we think will be successful. We are doing everything we possibly can to keep the country on an even keel.  Now, when the opposition has no issues on which to fight, their next step is misrepresentation and smear. And that is what is going on. 
 It is based on neither one. It is based on neither one. That is one of your own impressions that you are putting out. 
 Well, I am answering you. 
 For the 5 years that I have been President, there has been a net surplus of $8 billion. That is not deficit financing. And this defense program has not yet made its impact on the economy.  
 Well, they are about the same, if I remember my history. And when it is necessary to meet a situation, it has to be met. The tail end of an administration which ended in 1932, I think, ran in the red pretty regularly. Then, when the emergency had to be met, the means to meet it were in the hands of the President of the United States, and he took advantage of them and took the country out of the hole. 
 Well, I have never been for deficit financing, and I haven't had deficit financing. Read the record. 
 Yes, I will, if they don't give me the tax bill to meet it. 
 Yes. Yes, I can't. That's the reason I asked for it.  
 Whenever there is misrepresentation, there's a smear.  
 I will give you that in the Democratic platform, when we go to write it. 
 I am going to help.  I always help. I have been helping ever since I was--oh--it has been 30 years that I have been helping to give the Democrats the right issues to win with the people. And I have been pretty successful at it.  
 No. Not ready yet. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and seventy-ninth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, September 20, 1951. 
