  Dr. Basil O'Connor has resigned as President of the Red Cross, and General Marshall will succeed him on October 1st. The exchange of letters between Mr. O'Connor and myself is available if you want it, after the conference. 
 General Marshall will take over on October 1st. 
 American National Red Cross. 
 I don't know--I can't answer it definitely, because I don't know. It doesn't make any difference to General Marshall whether it pays or whether it's honorary, he is going to take it anyway.  
 No, I have no comment. 1   1 On September 21 the responsibility for the control of the American zone of Germany was transferred from the Department of Defense to the Department of State. On that date the Council of the Allied High Commission, representing the United States, British, and French Governments, came into being and formally proclaimed the Occupation Statute which was an act in lieu of a peace treaty between the Western occupying powers and the new Federal Republic of Germany.  
 I have no comment to make on that.   And, just so you'll be satisfied, General Vaughan  is in the dentist's chair.  
 Probably. Did you ever sit in a dentist's chair without being in pain?  
 No, I have no comment. I think all the comment necessary was made by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the foreign representatives who were here at the meeting. 2   2 The financial and economic conference between British, Canadian, and American officials, held in Washington from September 7-12.  
 I certainly have. 
 My 'position hasn't changed, and I don't intend to answer questions any further.  
 That is up to Congress. I expressed my views in the Message on the State of the Union back in January. 
 Well now, the leaders were here this morning and you had a chance to interview them. 
 I am not speaking for the leaders. I talk to them, not over their heads at a press conference.  
 No comment on that.  
 From what I see in the papers, it looks very hopeful.   
 That's right. I asked them for that. I think the legislative program will work out very well, just as I said at Pittsburgh, before Congress adjourns.  
 I have no comment.  What's the matter--  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
