  The first thing, I am exceedingly happy over the Bretton Woods--345 to 18. And the nonpartisan character of the support of that legislation makes me believe that the Congress really is for a peace treaty.   In connection with Justice Jackson's war crimes report, which was given to you this morning, 1  I have been reminded that next Sunday, the 10th, will be the third anniversary of the ruthless destruction of that Bohemian village of--I don't know how to say it--L-i-d-i--  Voices: Lidice.   This is one of the most barbarous of all the crimes on the Nazi calendar. June 10th will be remembered always as another day of infamy.  1 The 8-page report in the form of a letter to the President from Mr. Justice Robert H. Jackson, Chief of Counsel for the United States in the prosecution of Axis war criminals, is Published in the Department of State Bulletin .   I want to say something to you about the transportation situation that we are facing now, on account of the redeployment situation.  Colonel Johnson was in to see me yesterday, and told me very plainly that we were going to have to meet this transportation situation in 10 months. We have only a third smaller job to do than the one which has just been finished, and it took--that was over a period of 48 months. This will be over a period of 10 months; that is, to transfer all our armed forces across the United States and the deployment in the Pacific--redeployment in the Pacific. The first transportation job was considered a miracle, and this one ahead of us is even bigger.  And I want to impress it on our citizens that their best contribution in this case will be to stay at home.  I have written a letter to Colonel Johnson on the subject, and a statement will be available when you go out. But that is most important, that redeployment transportation situation. It is going to strain every facility we have, in order to get it done on time.   Mr. H. A. Millis, Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, has resigned, and I have appointed Paul M. Herzog of New York to be his successor. Mr. Millis has been trying to--   H. A. Millis, Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, has resigned. He has been trying to quit for some time. I appointed Paul M. Herzog. He is in the Navy now, but the Navy will let him out, if he gets confirmed. And I think he will be.   I want to announce the--Stuart Symington of St. Louis will be appointed to succeed Senator Gillette when Senator Gillette's expiration date expires July 15th; but I have asked Mr. Symington to come up and get familiar with the job by cooperating with Judge Vinson, and the other two members of the Board, and Senator Gillette, before he leaves.   That is a congressional matter that will have to be done by law. I can't change it.   He will be Chairman when Senator Gillette's expiration time expires.   With the other two members of the Board, and Mr. Vinson.   W. Stuart Symington.   S-y-m-i-n-g-t-o-n. And he spells that Stuart in the English King manner--S-t-u-a-r-t.    It's to fill out the unexpired term, and for a new term also. The present term expires, I think, sometime in August.   I want to announce the resignation of Grover B. Hill as Under Secretary of Agriculture, and the appointment of John B. Hutson   H-u-t-s-o-n--he is assistant to Judge Vinson--as the Under Secretary of Agriculture.   Kentucky.   Kentucky!   I want to announce the resignation of Brigadier General Frank T. Hines as Veterans Administrator, and of the other job he has, and the--General Omar Bradley will be appointed in his place.   And I want to remind you of--[laughter]--a statement that was made at the press conference here, on May 15th, in which I said the Veterans Administration will be modernized, and that should be done as soon as possible. But at that time I was not ready to do the job immediately, because I hadn't obtained the consent of the War Department for General Bradley to serve.   He will not. He will still be a four star General while he is in charge of the Veterans Bureau.   I don't think so. I think I am going to dispose of that in another way at a little later date.   No. General Hines' resignation is effective at my pleasure, and that will be when General Bradley can wind up his duties in Europe and take over. That will probably take 30 to 60 days to be accomplished.  I wrote General Hines a letter, and here is the way I wind it up. You will get copies of both these letters, my letter and his letter of resignation too.  : "I want you to know that I have always had, and shall continue to have, complete confidence in you, and in your handling of public matters. In fact, I shall ask you within the near future to take another post of public importance, and I hope you will accept it."  And he told me personally that he would.   I would rather not discuss it now, because I will discuss it at a later date. When General Bradley takes over here, I will give you the complete layout of it--what we propose to do.   It will be modernized, let's put it that way. It will be a Veterans Administration for World War II. That was the setup for World War I, and has been very adequately handled for World War I. But as a World War I soldier, I wouldn't have been happy to have had the Spanish-American War veterans running the Veterans Administration, and I don't think--[laughter]--the new veterans would. I think they would much rather have a general of their own war in the place.  And General Hines thought so, too-after we discussed it.  Are there any questions?     I am in entire agreement with it. I think it's a good report, and I think it shows just exactly what we are attempting to accomplish.   That's just--it means just exactly what it says. That is what we propose   No, no. That's just to make it emphatic.   Yes, I think so. I don't think there will be any delay on that.   The British have already come in, and I am sure the Russians and the French will.  I beg your pardon?    I haven't gone into that. I have been discussing it with Judge Vinson, but have come to no conclusion on them.    Well, as a Member of the Senate, I was always against that bill.    I hope that will not be necessary, but if it becomes necessary, I will certainly do it.    I told the Department of Justice to file the suit.    I will discuss that at a little later date. You will find the record on that in the Senate, also.    I would not.   I will discuss that when Mr. Hopkins returns--discuss it fully. I don't want to discuss it now.   That will be discussed from San Francisco very shortly.   I hope you won't force me to answer that, because I want to discuss that when Mr. Hopkins gets back.    The announcement will be made from San Francisco.   Yes, very shortly.   Well, the meeting that was contemplated is a Big Three meeting to discuss world affairs. I think that the Near Eastern situation will be worked out without any Big Five meeting.   Well, I think it will be sometime within the next 40 days. That is as near as I can come to it.    No, I can't. I am not in a position to make a statement on that, but I will be, I think, next week.    They did.   They always ask that, every time they come around.    I am not in any position to make a statement on that. We will work out a survey of the situation at a later date, and then come to a conclusion. At present, it stands.    No, I did not. I did not.    Well, my views are that the Members of the House and the Senate are grossly underpaid. I think they should have a salary commensurate with the work they do, and I have always thought that. And I can say it now, for I am no longer a Member of the Senate.   I think the Senators ought--and the Members of the House--ought to be in the position so that their principal employer would be the United States of America, and that they ought to pass an adequate salary bill for themselves. I would certainly sign it if they did, because I know that they need it. I don't think the Senate or House should be a rich man's club. I think the common, ordinary citizen ought to have a chance to serve.   Not now. It has been.   No, I don't. I think they ought to come straight out and raise their salaries and be done with it.   No, I won't veto it. This is a legislative job and I will--if they want it that way, let them have it, because I know they need the money; but I say it would be much better for them if they would come out for a straight salary raise.   Anywhere from $15,000 to $25,000 a year.   No, I did not, but I know in my own case, in order to meet my bills, I had to make my wife my secretary. She had to work all the time in the public interest, instead of keeping house. I didn't like it!  And you made a campaign issue out of it in the last campaign, and the people liked it. But that shouldn't happen, there is no sense in that at all. This Government is rich enough to pay its employees an adequate salary, and they ought to do it.   I do that. I think it is absolutely necessary.   Mr. President, can you comment on the visit of Justice Black with you this morning?   It was a social call. Justice Black and I have been friends ever since I went to the Senate. This is the first chance--  --time he has had a chance to call on me. 
