  I have only one announcement to make. I have received a request from the Secretary of the Navy to transfer Admiral Denfeld to another post, and I have given him permission to do it. You will find his letter, and my reply, in mimeographed form as you go out. 1   1  See Item 241.   It hasn't been definitely decided as yet.   The letter of the Secretary of the Navy will explain it in full.   I can't answer that question.   I hope so.   I do not know.   I suppose so.   As soon as I find out who I want to appoint. 2   2 Adm. Forrest P. Sherman became the next Chief of Naval Operations. He was appointed on November 2, 1949, and was confirmed by the Senate on January 24, 1950.   I had no conversation with anybody but the Secretary of the Navy.   The letter will speak for itself. You will get all the information you want out of the letter.    I haven't received any communications from President Murray.    Not that I know of. That's news to me. Who is Dr. Dewey Anderson?     He will be appointed Ambassador to Yugoslavia, and his successor has not been decided on as yet.    No, I did not talk to him. I wouldn't be surprised if he did make a phone call of that sort. We get them every day, every time there's a strike we get phone calls like that.   We will cross that bridge when we come to it. There is no national emergency as yet.    I will not comment on that. The Philippine people have a right to elect anybody they choose for president, and we will still be friendly with the Philippines whoever the president is.    The board of inquiry in the steel strike was appointed. It did its job. It has been discharged. And there is no other board to be appointed.    I have had no discussion on that subject.    I will cross that bridge when I get to it. What do you think?   3 Representative Leonard Irving of the Fourth Congressional District of Missouri, the President's home district, was also the president of the Hod Carriers', Building, and Common Laborers' Union. On July 16 he was charged with diverting union funds to his own use, but the charges were dismissed by a Federal circuit court on August 15.    No, nothing further to say.   I have nothing further to say on the subject.    He wanted to know if I was going to campaign for my Congressman, Mr. Irving, and I told him I would cross that bridge when I got to it, and asked him whether he thought I would.   This red-headed boy back here, who is asking a question now.   You know I am embarrassproof.  Everybody in the world has tried to embarrass me, and it hasn't worked.    No, there is no elaboration. Read the report, that's all you need to do. Have you read it?   All right, then you got the answer.   I would do nothing about it. The board has done its job. Period.  4 Carroll R. Daugherty, chairman of the Steel Industry Board. See Item 209.    The speech that I made to those businessmen was off the record, and it is still off the record. 5   5 The President's off the-record remarks were made to the Businessmen's Dinner Forum of the A. & H. Kroeger Organization. The President spoke at the Statler Hotel in Washington on October 20, at 9:30 p.m.    Not yet. I will have one.   He probably won't be a candidate when I get through with him.     That's correct.   Well now, I suppose we will cross that bridge when we get to it. We are not there by a long way.   The law will be complied with when it comes time. I will do all that is necessary for the law to be complied with, but it can't be complied with until that time comes.   Well, I don't know. I have never had a chance yet to enforce the Taft-Hartley law, and when the time comes that I should enforce it, it will be enforced.   How's that?   The Taft-Hartley law? I have never used the Taft-Hartley law that I know of.   That was the War Powers Act under which we acted with John L. Lewis.   It may have been. It may have been.   I had forgotten about that. It may have been. 6   6 On March 23, 1948, the President signed Executive Order 9939, "Creating a Board of Inquiry to report on a labor dispute affecting the bituminous coal industry of the United States." The order was issued under the authority of section 206 of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 .   We will comply with the law when the time comes.   Of course I would. I am here as the Executive of the United States, to enforce the law. That is what I intend to do.   Yes, it's a long way from a national emergency.   I do.   I determine it, unless the Congress happens to be in session and passes a resolution that there is a national emergency.   No, I have not.   I haven't determined it.   Yes, I am. I am always hoping that collective bargaining will work. That is what everybody wants. At least, that is what they say they want.   No, I didn't say that. I said I hadn't determined whether I had seizure powers. Whenever we come to that fact, we will go into all those details and I will do whatever the law requires.    I don't know what Cabinet member quoted me. I think Mr. Ross answered that question fully and completely this morning. 7  You will have to put up with that answer.  7 During the morning, Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President, dictated the following statement to the press:  "Any attribution to the President of any plan to intervene in the coal and steel strikes or to fix a deadline on the effort to reach a settlement through mediation is entirely without warrant.  "This office has told you every day, in reply to questions, the literal and exact truth of the situation.  "Obviously this office cannot foreclose the possibility of appropriate action by the President on any matter before him at any time.  "He 'may' do anything that is within his power to do. But it is literally true that the strikes are in the hands of the Mediation Service at this time and the President is keeping hands off.  "He certainly is not putting out statements, directly or indirectly, that he is going to intervene."  Mr. Ross went on to state that he was authorized by the President to say that he had not discussed the present strike situation with any member of the Cabinet. Upon being questioned by a reporter, Mr. Ross conceded that the President might have mentioned the subject in a Cabinet meeting.   He wanted to know if I was embarrassed by the purported interview by the Cabinet officer, and I told him Mr. Ross had answered that question thoroughly and completely this morning just the way I wanted it answered.    No, not yet. I will announce it just as quickly as I find a man to take the job.    I answered the letter of the Secretary of the Navy, and that is when the decision was made.   Yes.   Well, I do not know what the procedure will be from now on.   The Secretary of Defense was present when I talked to the Secretary of the Navy. He heard the conversation.   It could have been.    Yes, I did.   I think so. I think that that is true.   You're entirely welcome.
