  I am sending a letter on the budget to all the heads of the executive departments and agencies--a copy of this will be available to you when you go out-asking them to cut expenses as much as possible.  And we will have a budget press conference tomorrow at 3 o'clock, in the Movie Room over in the east wing.   I have just sent down the name of Keen Johnson of Kentucky, to be Under Secretary of Labor.  And, I signed the bill creating an Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs; and I appointed Mr. William Clayton to that job.   Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. And that's--   Keen Johnson is Under Secretary of Labor, and Will Clayton is the Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.   Yes, he was Governor.   K-e-e-n. And without any "t" in the Johnson.   I think so--I think so. I have no announcements to make on them.    Just what they have been. Substantially what he has been doing right along. I am ready for questions now.    Mr. Attlee has not been in consultation with me. And the statement which I made on the subject yesterday covers the situation, so far as I am concerned. 1   No further comment than that.  1 The statement, released by the White House on July 31, follows: "The President has been considering certain recommendations of the Alternates of the Cabinet Committee with regard to Palestine and has decided in view of the complexity of the matter to request Ambassador Grady and his associates to return to Washington to discuss the whole matter with him in detail. "The President hopes that further discussions will result in decisions which will alleviate the situation of the persecuted Jews in Europe and at the same time contribute to the ultimate solution of the longer term problem of Palestine."   No conversation with Mr. Attlee. He has been in conversation with Mr. Byrnes.    I am not in Tennessee politics. I think you understand that. No comment on that.    I am having it studied now, and as soon as I come to a conclusion, you will be informed at once.    No comment. I haven't been out there.   No.    No. I know nothing about it. That's the first I've heard of it.    He is a very able administrator. That's what we need, is an able administrator.   Yes.   I know his ability. I know his record, and I think he will make an excellent Housing Commissioner because he is a good administrator. That's the reason I appointed him.    No. I have had no such letter. He's sitting here. You might ask him.     I made that comment yesterday, which was published in all the papers of the United States. I have a copy of it available here, if you want it. 1  1 The President probably referred to a statement released by Attorney General Tom C. Clark. As reported in the New York Times for July 31 Mr. Clark said "I have talked with the President regarding this case and he has expressed to me his horror at the crime and his sympathy for the families of the victims. He has asked that the Department report its progress in the investigation and proceed with all its resources to investigate this and any other crimes of oppression so as to ascertain if any Federal statute can be applied to the apprehension and prosecution of the criminals."   I voted for it every time it came up, when I was in the Senate.    I expect to talk with him about his duties in Germany. I have no other object in talking to him.   That's what the papers say. Of course he's going to return to his duties. That's what he's coming home for.    They have not. This Government has not.    That was good. If you are discussing New York politics, I am not going to discuss New York politics this morning.    Not a word. I have no comment on that, either. That's a good question, though.    No answer, no.    I hadn't considered it. I would like to go, of course. I have been wanting to go to Puerto Rico for a long time, but I don't think there's any chance of my going.    I am working on that now, and as soon as I have the proper acceptances, they will be announced. I can make no statement on it this morning. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.
