  Reiteration of the policy toward China was released today. I think you have all had it.   And also, the Economic Council's Report to me was released to you. 1     1 The First Report of the Council of Economic Advisers is printed in Senate Document 6 .  I have no special announcements to make. If anybody has any questions--  
 Not that I know of. 
 So the people would know what our policy toward China is. 
 Yes.  
 Shoot. 
 No, I have these economists to make that report to me for that purpose, and I haven't studied the report carefully. Maybe Dr. Nourse would want to answer that question?  Dr. Nourse: I don't think that the report said that. I thought it said "and similar figures" after speaking of housing as to those electrical appliances.  THE PRESIDENT. Read the report carefully. I don't think it has any wild statements.   
 One year is 12 months. That statement was made the 15th of December last year--1945. This reiterates a clarification of the situation as it has developed. General Marshall will stay as long as it is necessary with the hope of getting the thing settled.  
 General Marshall has done a remarkable job. Nobody could have done better.   Go ahead with your Economic Council--
 What makes you think there's a possibility of a recession in 1947? I don't admit to any such thing. 
 Well, I haven't carefully read the report, but I don't agree with any such suggestions. 
 Yes. 
 Yes. My report will be a concrete report. 
 I will discuss it with you just like I will the budget. 
 Yes. 
 It will contain specific recommendations. 
 I am very glad to hear that.   
 Sure. 
 This policy is a continuing policy, that's the reason I reiterate it.  
 He wants to know what, in my opinion, the economic outlook for 1947 is. Well, I think I made the statement time and again that the outlook for the country is good, and it will continue to be good if we can just get people to go to work. I have reiterated that ever since my speech in Kentucky, at the dedication of that dam.  
 The 500 million import, I hope, is not endangered. 
 I don't want to make a positive statement on it.  
 Stay at work. 
 Nobody wants any strikes. I never want any strikes at all, and I don't think any of them were necessary. 
 No. I will give you that when I get ready to make it. 
 I will set that out in clear and understandable terms in the Message on the State of the Union.  
 Looked at what? 
 No. I haven't looked at it.  
 I have--I will get those recommendations. I am not ready yet to discuss them because they are not ready. When I get ready to send out the documents to Congress--my reports to the Congress--I will see that you are fully informed.  
 Yes. We have always had that in mind. When we say bipartisan policy in international relations that covers the whole field. We have been trying to adhere to that policy right straight through. 
 Well, the President is responsible for the foreign policy of the United States, and when it becomes the duty of the Senate to become involved, they will be informed and the matter will be discussed with them.  
 I will answer that question in my report to the Congress.  
 No. I have no comment to make on that. 
 That is set out fully in this report here. If you will read this report, this statement that I have just issued you, you will get that information. That has been the policy all along. 
 Yes.  
 Yes. I have given it some thought. I have reached no conclusions.  
 Not yet. When we are ready, I will announce it.  
 That will speak for itself when it comes out.  
 No, I do not. There will be a State of the Union Message. There will be a Message on the Economic Council program, and there will be a Budget Message-issued in that order. 
 Of course. What else could you base it on? 
 Well of course, it will be based--the budget itself will be based on law. You make certain recommendations in the budget which are not a part of it until they become the law, if you want to make a hairline distinction on it.  
 I have no comment.  
 I will be at home with my feet under the table, I hope.   
 I have no comment.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are welcome. I want to wish you all a Merry Christmas. I probably won't see you until after Christmas.  Voices: Same to you, sir. Thank you, sir. Note: President Truman's ninety-first  news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Wednesday, December 18, 1946. 
