 I have no special announcements to make this morning, ladies and gentlemen, but I will try to answer questions.  \. Well, since April 12, 1945, I have been making a crusade--a continuing crusade--for peace, and I don't think there ever has been an opportunity that I didn't use that subject as one to talk about. If you will study all the speeches and messages that I have written to Congress, and the speeches that I have made outside on the world situation, you will find that that is the keynote of every one of them. I am going to keep it up. \. I say I expect to keep it up just on the same line that I have spoken of it all the time ever since April 12, 1945. \. The disarmament program is before the United Nations, and when the atomic energy part of that disarmament pact is agreed to by all the nations, then we can talk about disarmament, but not before. \. Oh yes, it is moving gradually--slowly and gradually toward world peace, and we will eventually get it. I have said that all the time.  \. That question will be answered in my Economic Message which will go down to the Congress about the first of the week.  1    1  See Item 151.  \. No, no. That is not my business. That is the business of the great State of New York.  \. I think it is a perfectly absurd opinion. As long as the Constitution makes the President of the United States the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, I don't think anybody else can take him over very well.  \. What are you talking about? Say that again. \. The matter is being discussed in Paris and London now. I can make no statement on it at the present time. \. No, I will not. That Economic Message is one on the United States of America. \. Well, I had no such plan. That is the first I had heard about it. A lot of people know more about what I am going to do than I do. \. As I said, I hadn't heard about it before, and I have no such intention. I have no such intentions.  \. I certainly am. Missouri is my home State, and I shall express my opinion freely in the Missouri campaign. \. I may not participate in the primary, but in the general election I will tell you what I think later.  \. I have been invited on several occasions. I hope sometime I will be able to make a visit there. I used to go down there frequently.  \. None whatever. There is no move that we can make. \. He has. He has. He has inherent powers where the welfare of the Nation is at stake, or where there has been a breakdown of communications between the several States, or between the United States and foreign nations. But that condition doesn't exist in the Hawaii strike at all. \. That was a difficulty between a foreign nation and the United States, and we met it.  \. He is trying to make arrangements to accept it now. He is doing everything he can to conclude those arrangements. \. Chairman of the Munitions Board. \. No. It's the Munitions Board.  \. Local strikes is that? \. Well, I don't know whether I want any such powers or not.  \. That's right. I shall. \. They are considering it. We discussed the matter at the meeting Monday, to study the advisability of bringing it up again. \. They will make the decision. \. I certainly would. \. Taft-Hartley repeal. \. Who said that? \. Well, I think John probably would know what the situation is, for the simple reason that tax bills have to originate in the House of Representatives.  \. I would have to tell you about that when it came before me and I had a chance to analyze it.  \. He talked to me about politics in general, and Texas politics in particular. We had a very pleasant meeting. \. That was brought up and discussed very amicably between us. Every Congressman is interested in patronage. used to be a Senator, and I was too, then. I am yet, but it is on a larger scale.   \. That is correct. \. I didn't change my mind. I will be gone exactly one day. My mind hasn't changed a bit on that subject, but that has been one matter which has been under consideration for a year or two, and I finally made up my mind that I would make the trip out there for the benefit of some of my friends who are generally interested in my being present. It is not a political trip, however.   2  On July 19 the President flew to Chicago to attend the Imperial Council Session of the Shrine of North America. See Items 159 and 160.  \. I am bullish. Read the stock market returns for the last 3 or 4 days.  \. Oh yes. I have several under consideration.   3  Mrs. Perle Mesta was sworn in as Minister to Luxembourg on July 8, 1949. \. When I get ready to make the appointment I will make the announcement-- \.--if I decide to make the appointment.  \. I can't answer that, but I will make an announcement in the Economic Message on Monday. \. You will find out what has happened. \. I will answer it then.  \. No. We are working on it all the time.  \. No, I haven't. That has been under consideration ever since the Hatch Act was passed, but I think it is merely a matter for consideration, to give you a headline once in a while.  \. The Housing Administrator was with me the other day, and that was the substance of the conversation. As rapidly as possible we are going to move forward on the housing bill.  \. I haven't seen it. I don't know what it contains, and I can't give you the answer on that. I will tell you about it, though, if it ever comes before me.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.   4  On February 17, 1949, Senator Francis J. Myers of Pennsylvania introduced a bill to provide a 2-year moratorium on prosecutions of antitrust violations in basing-point cases. On May 31 Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney of Wyoming substituted a bill which permitted absorption of freight charges, sales at "delivered prices," and certain instances of price discrimination in the absence of conspiracy. Several amendments were added to this bill to safeguard small businesses against such discrimination. The Senate passed the modified bill on June 1 by voice vote. Note: President Truman's one hundred and eighty-eighth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, July 7, 1949. 
