 Gentlemen, I have no particular announcements to make--just having a press conference for your edification. If you want to ask me questions, I will try to answer them if I can.    I don't think so. I don't know about it for sure. We are having it looked up now.   The Labor Department is handling that.   Let's wait to see if conditions warrant that situation, then we will see what we ought to do.    No, there is not.    ][ can't answer that question. I don't know.   I have not.    No. No concrete reaction that I know of.   They are working on it now. I don't know when they will have it ready.    No.   No.    I'm not--I haven't the figures ready yet. Whenever they are ready I will make my prediction.   NO, not at the present time, until I have all the figures.    JUST what anyone else does at Think Councils. They look over the situation from a Democratic viewpoint.   Well, I don't know.   Thought Clinics--well, that's a good name for them!     Well, the speech will speak for itself, Bert, 1  when it comes out. I think that's the best way to analyze it. I will let you have a copy just as quick as anybody else.   1  Bert Andrews of the New York Herald Tribune.    I am not worried about the Communist Party taking over the Government of the United States, but I am against a person, whose loyalty is not to the Government of the United States, holding a Government job. They are entirely different things. I am not worried about this country ever going Communist. We have too much sense for that.    I have no information on the subject at the present time.    NO I haven't, because I haven't the authority yet to appoint anyone.   That's true. I haven't selected the man to handle the 350 million. And that, too, hasn't passed the Congress.   I haven't seen it. I will let you know about it when the bill comes up here.    Not at the present time. If it is necessary for him to go back, he will.    No comment. Mr. Krug will answer that.   I certainly have not. Mr. Krug is an efficient public official.    I have given it no thought. Only when I go to pay my bill.    I haven't given it any special thought. It goes along with the statement I made last week on general prices.   Yes, she has. She realizes it just as the housewife has.    None. I will announce the 'plans whenever they are ready.   I don't know when it will come up, Smitty. 1  I will let you know in plenty of time so that you can get ready!  1  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations.    NO, I have no comment.    She has always had good shopping ideas.     I have no comment on that.   Entirely welcome.
