 Well, I haven't any special announcements to make to the press this morning, but I thought maybe the press might want to ask a question or two, so I thought I would let you in this morning.  
 Mr. Stettinius sent me a letter of resignation based on the fact that he thought his--the job he agreed to do--  which was to complete the organization of the United Nations program--had been completed. I expressed the hope to him that he would not insist on that resignation- I want him to stay, and so does the Secretary of State. 
 No, he hasn't. This was a surprise to me. 
 Day before yesterday-well, it has been 2 or 3 days ago. I think about Monday, probably. 
 That is where it stands. 
 I think he's going to stay. I am sure--I hope he will.  
 I will have to analyze the Case bill when it gets to me. I haven't seen it, and I don't know what it contains. I will give you the answer when I have had a chance to analyze it.  
 The agreement at Potsdam, as I remember it, was for a--communications, transportation, and finances was to be in overall control. That is as I remember the Potsdam agreement. I would have to look it up to be absolutely sure. 
 Not rejected by us. It had to be rejected because of the inability of the four controlling powers to agree on all the details. I don't know who is at fault. The best thing to do is to ask the Secretary of State. I think he can answer that for you.  
 I have no comment. 
 No. I don't read Mr. Whitney. 
 I don't read Mr. Whitney.  
 I think so. I think that the draft provision in that bill has been grossly misrepresented and misunderstood.  It is customary, in an emergency, even when a sheriff has an emergency in his county, he can deputize any citizen to act to enforce the law. That was really the power that I wanted, in that case, because we needed experts, particularly in the railroad situation, to run the trains; and I merely wanted the authority to deputize those fellows to meet the emergency, just as you would in any other great emergency. And I don't think it has been understood. I think they're misrepresenting it. It is not-was not intended as a "draft labor" proposal. It was a "draft citizens" proposal in an emergency.  
 No immediate plans. I would be glad to see him. I have invited him to visit me here in Washington on two occasions, and he has regretted that he couldn't come on account of his health.  
 I never heard of it.  
 Well, let's see. I imagine it has been within 30 days. 
 No, no. The first time was at Potsdam, and the second time about 30 days ago, in the correspondence between us on food and things, I have asked him if he wouldn't come over and pay a visit to me in Washington. 
 He replied each time that his doctors did not think it was well for him to take such a long journey. That is almost exactly what he said. 
 Not in the immediate future.  
 I can't answer a question like that, Bert. 1  That is a matter you ought to take up with the State Department.  1 Bert Andrews of the New York Herald Tribune. 
 All right then; you can't get an answer.   
 Well, I think it's all been released by the State Department. 
 I will refer you to the State Department, because there are complications in connection with it which the State Department will have to handle.  
 No, it doesn't. It means just what it says.  
 Of course I do. I wouldn't have made it if I wasn't going to wholeheartedly support it; and the House was in the same frame of mind--and I appreciate that.  
 What's that? 
 No. 
 No.  
 No. I haven't had a chance to answer his letter as yet. That is the sort of letter I am expecting to send to him. The letter came right in the middle of all this turmoil, and I haven't had the opportunity to answer it.  
 It looks very dark at the present time, and we are making the necessary preparations to keep the ships running. 
 It would take whatever is necessary to do it. It will include Navy, the War Shipping, and the Army and the Coast Guard. Nothing will be left undone to keep the ships running.  
 The report is to come in today, and I am having a conference with them on Tuesday. I haven't seen the report. 
 As nearly as they could get the report to me, then we would discuss the matter, that was the conversation.  
 Well, of course, you are talking too long a way in advance. The situation on the Hill has a lot of time to develop between now and that time. I hope I can make the trip to the Philippines.  
 We will go just as far as present legislation will allow us. The emergency program would be of very great help in meeting that situation.  
 I hope so. 
 I am in no hurry about that. The Supreme Court is getting along very well.  
 I did not. I asked him for a social visit. 
 Mr. Attlee was asked last fall, and he came. 
 I did not.  
 Oh, a month ago. 
 Yes. Maybe more than that. He and I were discussing the conditions in the United States at the time of Jefferson, Jackson, and Lincoln, and he just happened to refer to that. I read it, but I had forgotten about it, and he called it to my attention. It fits the situation very well. 1   1 The reporter referred to the President's extemporaneous remarks to the graduating class of George Washington University on May 29. Shortly after receiving an honorary degree the President read a quotation from Henry Clay in which Clay in 1833 predicted that if "the progress of innovation" continued at the current rate until 1837, the Government of the United States "will have been transformed into an elective monarchy." Mr. Truman stated that he had received the quotation from Justice Hugo Black.  
 I can't remember--no, it wasn't. I think it was maybe while the Paris conference was going on. I can give you the date exactly if you would like to have it. It's in the record.  
 Yes I have. The difficulty with naming that Advisory Council is to get the proper men to accept the responsibility. Because of the treatment that some people get before the Senate and the Congress, it's a difficult matter to get the right sort of men to accept the possibility of that sort of treatment. 
 Why certainly. Certainly that's part of the difficulty.  
 Well, not right soon. I hope we will have a chance to appoint an Under Secretary of the Navy very shortly. We need--we certainly need one. 
 Yes I am. 
 Yes I am.  
 Yes, the Government approved them, or they wouldn't be in effect. 
 I beg your pardon ? 
 No, they were not. They were just exactly what was stated to you on Saturday.  
 I didn't know about it. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's sixty-seventh news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, May 31, 1946. 
