  Good afternoon. First, let me begin by talking about how pleased I am that a budget has been agreed upon. And it's now time for the Congress to act quickly. It's time for the Congress to pass meaningful, real tax reform, and I urge them to do so before Memorial Day. Tax relief will be good for our economy, but tax relief is also a very important way to help deal with high energy prices. And so the Congress needs to act. I'm confident if they have the will to do so, that they can, that they can get this done before Memorial Day.  And secondly, I believe strongly that the Attorney General made the right decision today. Any time we're preparing to carry out the death penalty, we have a solemn obligation to make sure that the case has been handled in full accordance with all the guarantees of our Constitution. The very foundations of our democracy depend on our ability to assure our citizens that in all criminal cases, and especially in the death penalty, defendants have been treated fairly. This decision is going to create some frustration amongst people whose lives were destroyed and turned upsidedown by Mr. McVeigh. But it is very important for our country to make sure that in death penalty cases, people are treated fairly.  I'll be glad to answer some questions, starting with Mr. Fournier .  Timothy McVeigh      Mr. Freeh, Director Freeh never brought this up to me. I found out about this last evening. My conversation with Mr. Freeh, when he came and said he was leaving - the subject never came up.  Secondly, Mr. McVeigh himself has admitted to the crime. Mr. McVeigh, as I recall, said he did it, and I take him for his word.    Actually, I've been given an order. You're second, Steve .  Gasoline Prices    The price of crude oil has got something to do with the price of gasoline, but not nearly as much as the fact that we haven't built a refinery in years. What this Nation needs to do is to build more refining capacity. And we're prepared to work with the industry to encourage capital development, capital to be deployed to develop more refining capacity. And that may require us to analyze all regulations that discourage development.  But the best way to make sure that people are able to deal with high energy prices is to cut taxes, is to give people more of their own money so they can meet the bills, so they can meet the high energy prices.  I'm not so sure you're it next. Gregory . You're soon.    Yes.    What I say is, I worry about the fact that hard-working people are paying high prices at the pump. It concerns me a lot. And therefore, the Congress needs to cut taxes as quickly as possible to give people money to be able to deal with this situation.  I also say, we need to build more refining capacity. We need more supply. We need to meet the increasing demands with better supply. I'm optimistic, in the long term, not only will we increase supplies but that our automobiles will become more technologically adept at dealing with the energy situation now. In other words, we'll have new types of automobiles, hybrids. And in the energy plan I'm going to be discussing, you'll see some incentives for hybrid automobiles. But the quickest way to get money in people's pockets to deal with prices is tax relief.  Bill Plante .    Back to David's question, I'll listen to everybody's suggestions. But I want to remind the Members of Congress, both Republican and Democrat, all of us are concerned about high energy prices and prices at the gas pump being too high. Let's get the tax relief done and do it quickly.  I hope there is no intention to delay. There needs to be money in the pockets of our consumers as quickly as possible. We've got the wherewithal to do so. But as to suggestions, I'm open minded for any suggestions somebody may have.    I'll look at all options. But the clearest way to get things done quickly is tax relief.  Now, the American people have got to understand that this is a situation that's going to require some long-term planning to get the situation in hand for the - to have a stable future. There is no such thing as immediate supply. This is a situation that's been developing over the years, and it's going to take a while to correct.  The quickest way to help people with their energy bills is tax relief. That is the quickest, surest way to do so.    If anybody thinks they've got a good idea, I'll listen. But for certain, what needs to happen is additional refining capacity, as well as tax relief.  Yes, Terry .  Death Penalty    Well, I am pleased to be able to report, as for the first case that came to my desk at the Federal Government, that my administration is going to take its time to make sure that justice has been administered fairly.    As Mr. Fournier brought up, I was the Governor of a State that had a death penalty, and as far as I was concerned, I reviewed every case, and I was confident that every person that had been put to death received full rights and was guilty of the crime charged.    Not as far as I'm concerned, so long as the system provides fairness. And today is an example of the system being fair.  Major .  Gasoline Prices    Major, I can tell - let me say it again, see if I can be more clear. To the Congress, who is interested in helping consumers pay high gas prices: Pass the tax relief as quickly as possible. We've set aside $100 billion to help consumers with high energy prices. That's the quickest way to help consumers. I am deeply concerned about consumers. I am deeply concerned about high gas prices. To anybody who wants to figure out how to help the consumers: Pass the tax relief package as quickly as possible.  Jim .  Federal Bureau of Investigation    There are two looks at what's happening in the FBI. One, of course, is the commission that Louis Freeh put together, headed by Judge Webster. I'm confident that that commission will take a full look at the proceedings within the FBI, as to regards to security matters.  And secondly, the Attorney General is going to be conducting an investigation as to why the documents were not given to Mr. McVeigh's lawyers. And I look forward to seeing what those findings reveal.  Yes, ma'am.  Energy Resources    The reason why we have a problem at the gas pump at this particular moment in history is because we haven't built any refining capacity. When you don't increase supplies of a commodity and demand continues to increase, the price is going to go up. And so our Nation must expand refining capacity. And we've got to do that within our hemisphere. Otherwise, when you transport refined product from far distances, it doesn't meet market tests. So we need more refining capacity.  I am working with Canada and Mexico to increase the supply, particularly of natural gas. We have a serious situation in the State of California, as you're very aware. We've been working with the officials of California to expedite the development of new electric generating capacity. We're also doing our part as a good citizen to reduce demand for electricity in peak hours. But the new plants that are being brought on stream in California are going to be driven by natural gas. And we need more natural gas to make sure there is fuel for those plants. So I am working with Mexico and I am working with Canada to try to figure out ways for us to encourage exploration in our own neighborhood.  I had a good discussion today with the President of Nigeria, who is talking about increasing their amount of production, coming from Nigeria. That is positive news for U.S. consumers. The more supply on the market, the lower - the less pressure there will be on price.  Ron .  National Economy    Well, I certainly hope they're better off. There's no question that the minute I got elected, the storm clouds on the horizon were getting nearly directly overhead. In other words, the economic news started to deteriorate.  The truth of the matter is, the market started to adjust March of last year. In other words, the so-called downturn has been in the making for a while. I believe with good policy from the Fed, as well as good fiscal policy, that we can recover, that that robust growth we all hope for will come back. I wish I could tell you when. I'm not an economist, but if I were, I'd probably say there's a 50 percent chance it would happen soon and a 50 percent chance it wouldn't.    Listen, Presidents, whether things are good or bad, get the credit or blame. I understand that.  But Ron, I'm not really that concerned about standing in polls. I am doing what I think is the right thing to do. And the right thing to do is to have proposed a tax relief package that is an integral part of a fiscal policy that makes sense.  I proposed the plan. I campaigned on the plan. Many of you, the truth be known here, didn't actually think it was going to happen. Now there's a budget in place, $1.25 trillion of tax relief, coupled with 100 billion of immediate stimulus that's now available.  If I had my way, I'd have it in place tomorrow, so that people would have money in their pockets to deal with high energy prices, so people would have money in their pockets to be able to plan for the future. The Congress needs to act. I'm confident that that will help an economic recovery.    Bob .  Federal Bureau of Investigation Nomination    We've just started, Bob. I look forward to seeing what the Webster report says. I look forward to hearing what the Attorney General says about the - about the reason why Mr. McVeigh's attorneys did not get - did not see certain documents.  And I am looking for somebody who will do a couple of things: One, enforce the law; two, keep morale high at the agency; somebody who is a good manager; and somebody who can work with the Attorney General in my administration.    As soon as possible. I'm not sure what that means, though, to be perfectly frank with you. I mean, we're beginning to look at different candidates, and it's a - obviously, it's a process that's going to take a while. Director Freeh assured me that the number two person there could do a good job if we took us a while to find a replacement.  Glen .  Timothy McVeigh    Really?    He should say - he's lucky to be in America, is what he ought to say; that this is a country who will bend over backwards to make sure that his constitutional rights are guaranteed; that as opposed to rushing his fate, that the Attorney General, with my strong support, said we better make sure that all guarantees are fulfilled. Mr. McVeigh is lucky to be in a country like this.  It's unfortunate that he would feel like reveling at all after what he supposedly has done. There are a lot of people's lives he affected; there are a lot of people in Oklahoma City - I went to the memorial. I got to see the faces of people, the pictures of people whose lives were lost. I talked to relatives who still weep when they think about a relative. This isn't a time to revel.  Yes, Bruni .    Frank, you need to talk to them about that.    Well, I can't possibly put myself in their stead.    Because it needs to send a signal to anybody who thinks what Timothy McVeigh did was okay, that in this society we're not going to tolerate that kind of heinous act.  But you need to talk to the - all I can tell you is, I'm sure there's going to be some frustration by the family members about a decision that the Attorney General made, supported by me. I'm sure there will be, and we'll probably hear from them. But they must understand that we live in a country that protects certain rights. And the Attorney General did the right thing in this decision.  Mike .  U.S. Citizens Held in China      We've sent clear signals to the Chinese that we expect our citizens that have been detained, and/or citizens who have been detained with U.S. relatives, that we expect them to be treated fairly. And we'd like for them to have whatever due process the Chinese can offer. We have expressed our concerns. Sometimes they listen; sometimes they don't.  Our relations with China are relations that are going to be based upon a consistent message with the Chinese: One, we expect there to be trade, and I hope there is trade; but two, that we expect people to be treated fairly inside that country. And hopefully they'll respond.  Federal Bureau of Investigation    I'm obviously concerned about an incident where documents have been misplaced. But I withhold judgment until I find out the full facts, to find out what the Attorney General's investigation finds out.  Martha .  American Justice System    I think, by and large, the system is healthy. And I think today proved why it is healthy, that ours is a Government that when found that documents hadn't been given to the defense attorney, even though those documents reviewed by our own - by our - Justice Department lawyers didn't feel like it was going to make the -  change the verdict. But we delayed until Mr. McVeigh's attorneys have a chance to look at the documents.  Death Penalty    Say that again on the forensic scientist?    Well, in this case -  -     Okay, I'm sorry. I beg your pardon.     Well, at the State level, I encourage Governors to be diligent and to look at all the facts and to make sure that people get full access to the courts and that there is no question about the person's guilt.  At the Federal level, I'm pleased to report that on the first case that came toward my desk, my administration reacted the way it should have, which is, given the fact that documents had been misplaced, the Attorney General recommended the delay of the execution until the - Mr. McVeigh's rights were fully vetted; in other words, his lawyers have a chance to look at those documents. It was the right thing to do.  And you bring up a hypothetical, but that's not the way it happened. The way it happened was that the evidence was brought forth, and we made a decision, and it was the correct decision.  Yes, sir.  Situation in the Middle East    I was kind of smiling -  it sounded kind of like an editorial.  But the death in the Middle East is abhorrent, and our Nation weeps when people lose their lives. And what we must do is work hard to break the cycle of violence. It's going to be very difficult for us to be able to bring people to the peace table so long as there is violence. And we will continue to work to break the cycle of violence.  Tommy .  United Nations Human Rights Commission    I did. I told him it was hard for me to envision a Human Rights Commission without the United States on it - and Sudan being on it, let me put it that way. We're off, and Sudan is on. I'm not so sure - you know, that sent an awfully, awfully strange signal to the world, it seems like to me.  Yes.    I do not. I think we have made an agreement with the United Nations, an agreement that had been negotiated in good faith, and I think we ought to pay our dues.  Having said that, the decision was an outrageous decision. To me, it undermines the whole credibility of this Commission -  to kick the United States off, one of the great bastions of human rights, and allow Sudan to be on. And I think most reasonable people in the world see it that way.  But I did bring up the subject. Thank you for pinning me.    He listened carefully.  Yes, sir.  Energy Policy      Please.    I would tell the American people I'm going to tell the truth when it comes to energy, that we have a serious problem, that we need to do a couple of things. One, we need to encourage the development of technologies to help us conserve. We need to be more conservation minded in America. But I'm also going to say, as plainly as I can, we won't conserve our way to energy independence. We must also increase supply. It's in the consumer's interests that we do so. The more supply there is, relative to demand, the less the price will be. And I believe that we can have exploration and sound environmental policy go hand in hand.  The only thing I know to do, sir, is to tell the truth the way I see it. And we can play like there's not an energy crisis or hope there's not a problem. There is a problem, and there's a problem that's going to confront this Nation. And my job as the President is to take the problem on and propose the solutions I think necessary to solve the problem. And again, I repeat, it's a combination of good conservation and an increase in supplies. And I believe we can do both. And so - I think most of the American people understand that. Thank you.  Yes.  Japan    Yes.    Well, I am concerned, but I am optimistic when I read what the Prime Minister has said about reforms. Now, I believe he's a man who is intent upon reforming the system. I had a good visit with him on the telephone. I look forward to meeting him in person. I look forward to discussing ways in which our important friendship can remain strong. And I look forward to hearing from him what he and his government intend to do to reform the system.  Japan is a very important partner of the United States. And it's not only an economic partner, but it's an important partner to keep stability in the Far East. It's important for us to work closely together, and I look forward to meeting him soon. And I'm confident we'll have a very good dialog when I'm able to do so.  Thank you all very much. Have a very good weekend.
