 Please be seated.  Before starting this morning, I think it is appropriate for me to express, on behalf of all of us, our very deep regret that Tony Leviero will not be here in these meetings any more.  I knew him in the war as an officer, since then through my personal contacts here; and I am sure that all of the rest of you that knew him had the same respect for him and admiration and liking that I did.  We will go to questions. 
 Well, of course, you have a number of invitations you have to consider. Tentatively, and I wouldn't put this down as the law of the Medes and Persians, but tentatively I want to accept an invitation to go to this year's Ploughville, which is at Newton, Iowa, to visit that day with the community that will be representative of agriculture, in which part of our economy I have so much interest.  I will not make a major address there. I am going there to visit with friends for the day. About a week later I expect to make a major address to the Nation, and probably the major subject of that address will be dealing with the agricultural community and economy.  Now, beyond that I haven't gone for the moment. 
 Let me see--it's Friday, I think--[confers with Mr. Hagerty]--Jim says he thinks it's the 21st, and I believe that is the date. 
 Somewhere along on that line. 
 That I am not quite sure yet.   Oh, yes--excuse me--I did forget one point. I think that probably right after Gettysburg, within a week, I may make a very short address which will not be before a great group, crowd, such as I was mentioning but sort of a studio address. 
 Well, I am not disturbed, no. I applaud their efforts to get out and work for every vote they can get.  The only thing that I would like to see is every American vote. I have got unlimited faith in America as long as America will express itself. And if everybody will get out and register and vote, why, I should say, let them carry their message in their own way to every corner of the land. Certainly before it is done, I think our own group will do the same. 
 From all I have heard of that incident it seems to be a great deal of misquotation, and I am not even sure that yours is exactly correct. But I will let you go to him, as he advised, I believe, that you should go to another individual, to get his interpretation of his statement. So you go back to the Press Secretary. 
 Well, in each case I think the local governments have moved promptly to stop the violence. And let us remember this: under the law the Federal Government cannot, on the ordinary normal case of keeping order and preventing rioting, cannot move into a State until the State is not able to handle the matter.  Now, in the Texas case the attorney for the students did report this violence and asked help, which apparently was the result of unreadiness to obey a Federal court order. But before anyone could move the Texas authorities had moved in and order was restored, so the question became unimportant. 
 I have not discussed it because you are quoting both an order that I have not read and a statement that I have not seen.  We have actually sent for the district court order to know what it says. I don't know what it says. Remember that the Supreme Court placed in the hands of the district judges the primary responsibility for insuring that progress in every sector was made.  Now, just exactly what Governor Shivers said I don't know. This is the first I have heard of it. 
 No, I didn't, Mr. Kent, but for a very peculiar reason.  You must remember that up until June of 1952 I was in the middle of the military organization that had access to all of the type of information that I could possibly get; so the additional information that I received, because of my peculiar status, was very limited, indeed.  But I did make it clear to Mr. Stevenson that while the information itself was of a secret character and could be imparted to no one else, that he was under no obligation otherwise. 
 Well, I can say what I have said so often: it is difficult through law and through force to change a man's heart. It seems to me that all of us who are so interested in this question of equality of rights regardless of religion and of race and color should do more about it. I try to miss no opportunity to urge people--I have done it; I have asked the clergy in, and I have asked them to help. I have asked educators in, I have asked them to help. Whenever I see a governor I ask him to help.  But I do believe that we must all, regardless of our calling in this world, help to bring about a change in spirit so that extremists on both sides do not defeat what we know is a reasonable, logical conclusion to this whole affair, which is recognition of the equality of men.  The South is full of people of good will, but they are not the ones we now hear. We hear the people that are adamant and are so filled with prejudice that they even resort to violence; and the same way on the other side of the thing, the people who want to have the whole matter settled today.  This is a question of leading and training and teaching people, and it takes some time, unfortunately. 
 I think it makes no difference whether or not I endorse it. The Constitution is as the Supreme Court interprets it; and I must conform to that and do my very best to see that it is carried out in this country. 
 Well, I am not going to comment on the contents of that proposal while it is being discussed in Cairo.  I will repeat what I have said, I think, each week here before this body: the United States is committed to a peaceful solution of this problem, and one that will insure to all nations the free use of the canal for the shipping of the world, whether in peace or in war, as contemplated by the 1888 convention. 
 Well, he is not--I don't think he is exclusively either one, because he is certainly not my sole spokesman; and he is also an intelligent, capable staff officer who cannot be expected on every question to come in and ask me verbatim what my answer is to every question, and carry it out to the press.  Now, for my part, he has done his job well. And I say in this one, you just go back to him and talk to him about it. 
 I don't think I will comment. If that man has that opinion--first of all, I doubt whether that is his real opinion. But if it is, why, he may express it. 
 Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have gone over this a number of times.  Why can't we take the situation of January 1953 and compare it with today? The French then were involved in a hopelessly losing war in Indochina, with the prospects repeated to me time and time again, that we were going to lose the whole peninsula, possibly to include the Kra Peninsula.  It was settled on a basis that at least gave the free world a firm foothold and under stronger leadership that has been there, and we have removed the taint of colonialism from any assistance that is given in that area.  The Korean War was going on, and under conditions where it was impossible to win; we were fighting and suffering losses merely to hold the line that we then had. It was settled, and we still hold that line.  Every week, if you will look up your own headlines of those days, we were expecting to lose Iran to the Tudeh Party in that country, which was communistic. The problem was settled.  Trieste was a point of great friction and great uneasiness to the free world, and that problem has been settled.  Austria was divided, and we couldn't seem to do anything about it. That has been settled.  Guatemala finally brought us all sorts of trouble. Communism was repelled there.  Now, all over the world there have been advances of that kind.  At the same time, there has been a change in the whole Russian Soviet approach to this problem. They have changed into more, apparently, of an economic propaganda plan rather than depending upon force and the threat of force. This requires intelligent, fast work on our side to put our own case better before the world and to operate better, and I think that that change has been made or is being made effectively, and that the Soviets are not doing as well in this new plan as they first thought they could.  Now, all the way through these things have occurred. Some of them have been not too fortunate, but some have been advances.  Notably, the Israel-Arab question has very little progress, although at one time we thought the Johnston plan had been fully accepted--and it was fully accepted in a technical way; it was merely the political aspects that kept it from being approved.  So I would say that the situation for the free world is a stronger one today than it was in January 1953, and I don't see how anyone can look at the facts as they exist and deny that. 
 Well, Mr. Lawrence, you can know a person a long time and not know him too deeply. Therefore, I will give you my opinion, my feeling, my reaction, but certainly it is not something that I can prove.  I first met Mr. Javits, as I remember, when he was part of a body of Congressmen who urged me to run for the Presidency when I was still a soldier, and at least I thought he was a man of great discernment then. You can understand that.   Now, from that time on I ran into him occasionally. I have never heard him say anything except expressed in terms of the greatest concern for the United States, for the people of the United States, for the little fellow who he seems to represent so ably; and I have never heard him say a word that wasn't that of a loyal, fine American. I was pleased that he volunteered or asked for permission to appear before some committee down here to go into the charges that have been made against him.  That is what I know about Mr. Javits, and as of this moment I think he is a fine American.  Now, if I am proved wrong, I would be greatly astonished. 
 Well, I can't say for sure, but certainly Illinois is one of the States that is under consideration for one of my very infrequent trips, journeys, from this city during the course of the campaign.  But I must say that although Governor Stratton did do that, and I was very appreciative, a lot of governors did the same thing. 
 Yes. I am meeting the Committee this morning. 
 No; a special group--meeting them this morning. 
 Well, if there has been no announcement yet, it will be made, I have no doubt, when they come in to see me this morning. 
 Well, you don't know for how long he has ordered this. I don't know whether he has ordered the permanent transfer of these people or until the situation is under control.  I want to re-emphasize this: certainly every liberal will be very jealous of protecting the locality's right to execute the police power in this country.  When police power is executed habitually and exercised habitually by the Federal Government, we are in a bad way. So until States show their inability or their refusal to grapple with this question properly, which they haven't yet, at least as any proof has been submitted, we'd better be very careful about moving in and exercising police power. 
 Well, Ray, it's perfectly obvious I don't know anything about it from experience.  I haven't been that kind of a President.  I would say this: the American people seem to support pretty firmly anyone that they believe is honest and working for all the people, and that I think is the reason that the charge is hurled at a man so often that he is a special interest President, that he is either for the rich or he is for somebody else, for the baldheaded people or any other group.   What I am trying to say is I believe that any President, as long as he is honestly and earnestly trying to serve 168 million people, is not going to be without influence. 
 This is a group I have asked to meet with me from civil life. They are not governmental officials. 
 Well, as I recall, the period of the Geneva Conference could certainly have been classified as one of rather peaceful interlude. Now, in that one, it is true that the American delegation--I personally--placed before the Russians the great problems of today that must be solved before we could agree that there was a promise stretching out before us of a truly peaceful world: the rights of all of the enslaved countries of Europe to vote for governments of their own choice under free elections, the foreswearing of force, the general and effective means of disarmament, the reuniting of countries that are divided, the inspection of each country to make sure that limitations on security measures were effectively carried out.  All of those things have been laid before them, and as of this moment I wouldn't see any advantage to be gained by merely renewing the opportunity to lay that before them, because it's never been fixed otherwise, never been stated otherwise. 
 Well, I don't know why they should do it, because they could have any number of reasons for believing that someone else should take my position, any number that might seem important to them. But if they base it merely upon the economy of this country, which they are seeming to do, and the dispersion of the productivity of this country, the products that have been produced, to all our people, then they are on very weak ground because the statistics can prove that they are absolutely wrong.  And I must say I received one letter only yesterday that came to me from a man who was in a union in New Jersey, and he protested in the bitterest terms the efforts of his leaders to tell him how he should vote.  He said, "I will obey my leaders in everything that touches labor. If they tell me to strike, I will strike, even if I don't agree. I will go hungry, as I have, many times. I will obey every order they give me in the labor field. But no one can tell me how to vote." And I think that is probably a very good American spirit. 
 I think it's been published that my invitation to Mr. Nehru has been renewed, and he was very receptive to the idea. But I believe we have been unable so far to fix the exact time.  After all, the election is now about 2 months away, and I think it would be rather unusual if it could be done before that. 
 Well, that hasn't been reported to me. What I do get in is reports of the cotton, raw cotton, consumption in Japan; and, of course, there is some shipping back here of textiles, and many individuals in the textile industry believe that this is in too great volume.  Now, they haven't reported to me on it, and I have had nothing from the Tariff Commission. 
 Well, I don't know at this moment of any reason why it should not be held. But I do know this: the reason they took so long in studying that plan was to make certain that there could be no chance of any accident of the kind the people have discussed occurring in connection with it. 
 Well, I read a lot of these things, and I saw in a book by a man named Moos, which was the history of the Republican Party, some reference to the great speech of President McKinley. I sent to the Republican Library and got--to the Congressional Library--[laughter]--now I suppose I will be accused of putting the Library in partisan politics.  I sent to the Congressional Library, got this speech and read it.  Merriman Smith, United Press: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Eisenhower's ninety-fourth news conference was held in the Executive Office Building from 10:30 to 10:59 o'clock on Wednesday morning, September 5, 1956. In attendance: 191. 
