  I have today accepted with regret the resignation of Arthur Goldberg as U.S. Representative to the United Nations. Ambassador Goldberg has expressed to me his desire to leave this position for personal reasons. He will continue at the United Nations, probably until around the early part of June, while certain matters that he now has underway are being handled and disposed of.  Ambassador Goldberg has, in conversations over the last several months, assured me that he would be available to the Government to consult and help out with any problems that we might feel he was equipped to help us handle.  To replace Ambassador Goldberg, I am appointing the Honorable George Ball. He is a distinguished public servant who has held many important positions--including Under Secretary of State--and who serves me unofficially in many advisory capacities at the present time.  Mr. Ball will be available to take over when Mr. Goldberg leaves. We anticipate a smooth transition. I will answer questions if you have any.  QUESTIONS  COMMUNICATION WITH HANOI  \. I have no comment. I have nothing new really to add to what you have been told in the official briefing.  AMBASSADOR GOLDBERG'S PLANS  \. Ambassador Goldberg will have a statement, I think, later in the day. That is a matter for him to handle.  TAX INCREASE  \. I am unable to evaluate them. If I remember, you had a tip or two from up there before. You may get that information there better than we can.  1 The Revenue and Expenditure Control Act of 1968 was approved by the President on June 28, 1968 .  Our position is the same; there has been no change in it. We would like very much to see the Congress act upon the recommendation we have made. The tax proposal is still in the committee.  I would say the members of the committee are better able to tell you about what action they might take or whether they will take any than I am.  THE PRESIDENT'S PLANS  \. The meeting today was off the record. I told Tom 2  to check with them and if they have no objection, I don't have any objection to releasing portions of that statement that might be of interest to you. I didn't tell them anything that you haven't already known for a long, long time--so don't feel sorry for yourselves.  2  Wyatt Thomas Johnson, Jr., Assistant Press Secretary to the President. \. I will give you the transcript. 3   3  See Item 212.  ARTHUR KRIM  \. I will make that announcement in due time.  4  Arthur B. Krim, former treasurer of the Democratic National Committee.  MILITARY SITUATION IN VIETNAM  \. I don't think so. You have reporters out there. The information I have available to me is not much different from what you have. I don't know what conflicts you are talking about. \. We do have reports like that.  SECRETARY OF STATE RUSK  \. First, I would deny that that is true. Secondly, we had our regular Tuesday meeting and we talked then, as we do at most of our meetings, about world conditions and matters that relate to his Department and to my duties here.  We had a Security Council meeting yesterday. I see and talk to the Secretary of State practically every day, so I would not agree with your premise. \. No, not at all, nor is 4:30 in the evening or 8:30. There is nothing different about that; I often see him several times a day. \. I don't ever discuss off-the-record meetings. I have a long-standing rule that I keep a man's confidence. If a meeting is set up as off the record, I keep it that way. I cannot be responsible for what other people may say. You won't find me discussing any off-the-record appointments I have.  ACTION IN CIVIL DISORDERS  \. I have made a statement that expresses my view. It is in writing and has been distributed to you. I suggest that you read it. 5   Richard McGowan, New York Daily News: Thank you.  5  See Item 209. Note: President Johnson's one hundred and twentyfourth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4:15 p.m. on Thursday, April 25, 1968. As printed above, this item follows the text of the Official White House Transcript. 
