 I was going to have an opening statement, but I decided that what I was going to say I wanted to get a lot of attention, so I'm going to wait and leak it.   So, we can start with the first question.  Program for Economic Recovery 
 Helen , first of all, with regard to last year compared to this year, I realize there's been an increase in unemployment. It's been a continuation of an increase that got underway in the last several months of 1980. There are aboutwell, the unemployment rate averaged in 1981, 8.1 percent. It averaged 7.4 percent in all of 1980. But that is a kind of unfair comparison, because it was increasing very much more in the last 6 months of 1980.  I have the greatest sympathyI think anyone doesfor those people who are unemployed. On the other hand, comparing this to the beginning of our term, there are a million people more working than there were in 1980, and there will be more people actually working, not counting the unemployed that might go back to work in 1982, just in connection with our growth. But that still isn't an answer for the unemployed.  But the people today have a lower interest rate than they had when we started. The inflation rate is sizably lower than it was when we took office. And so, we have set a program that hasand this has not been true before in any of the recessions of the past decade or sowe have in place a program now that is just getting underway that is designed to reduce the unemployment and to resolve these problems that are so bothersome today.  The first part of our tax program went into effectthat's another additional thing, the people have a lower rate of taxes than they did have. Part of that has been eliminated by the automatic increase passed by the previous administration in the social security payroll tax. But there will be another tax cut in July, and in this month we have had for the first time the elimination of the marriage penalty in taxes. But as these reductions in tax rates begin to take effect, then I'm quite sure we're going to see an upswing in the economy, and that is the answer to their problem.  Now, as to the cuts in social reforms, most of what we have done in that regard has not been a cut. There has not been a cut in the overall spending on human resources. Actually, there is an increase over the year before, and there will be an increase in '83 over '82 and on down the line. We have reduced the rate of increase in those programs. But much of the cut is aimed at trying to eliminate from the rolls those people who, I think, are unfairly benefiting from those programs.  Nothing has happened to change the situation of the person who is totally dependent on the government for help, nor are we going to change those things. 
 Well, I don't think that we are doing that, and I'm going to have to have a little talk with them. I think that they are basing some of their charge on speculation on things that have been talked about widely so far in the media, and they have not heard from us what it is we're talking about or what we're planning.  Sanctions Against the Soviet Union 
 Well, I think they have had an effect, although there's no question the situation in Poland is deteriorating. They have tried to present it as moderating. It isn't. The people are still imprisoned. There is no communication with Solidarity or between the military government and the people, and the military law is still in effect. We think, however, that there has been an impression made, and we have held back on some things additionally that we can do, things that we will consider that can add to the steps that we've already taken.  I've had a lengthy communication from the Pope. He approves what we have done so far; he believes that it has been beneficial. And yet, we're not going to wait forever for improvement in the situation there. We have other steps that we can take.  Yeah, Bruce ?  The Middle East 
 Well, there's no question about that being the toughest problem in a Middle East settlement. We won't set a deadline of any kind on when that must be decided. The Secretary has been on a fact-finding trip and will be there again, although no date has been set for that.  We want to help if we can, if we can come up with some ideas that might be helpful in the autonomy talks. That is the next step under the Camp David process. And so, as I say, we won't set a deadline, but we're most hopeful that we can be of help and that they will at least by the Sinai time get down to, let's say, a kind of a plan for proceeding. Sam ?  Educational Tax Exemptions 
 Sam[laughing]no one put anything over on me.  No, Sam, the buck stops at my desk. I'm the originator of the whole thing, and I'm not going to deny that it wasn't handled as well as it could be. But I think that what we actually saw was confusionand it was rather widespread and encouragedabout whatwe had not anticipated the reaction, because we were dealing with a procedural matter. And it was interpreted by many of you as a policy matter, reflecting a change in policy, and then therefore when we went forward, you said, well, then this was another change-back in policy.  What we were trying to correct was a procedure that we thought had no basis in law, that the Internal Revenue Service had actually formed a social law and was enforcing that social law. And we think that that's a bad precedent and is a bad thing to do, and so, there was no basis in the law for what they were doing. So, what we set out to do was to change that procedure and stop the Internal Revenue Service from doing this and then to have Congress implement with law the proper procedure.  I am opposed with every fiber of my being to discrimination, and to have set in law the fact that tax exemptions could be denied to schools thatand educational institutions that practiced discrimination. Now, as I say, it probably wasn't handled as well as it could, because, it being in our minds a procedural matterand in my mind, certainlywe didn't anticipate that it was going to be as misinterpreted as it was. And what we have accomplished with what we did was we've prevented the IRS from determining national social policy all by itself. It'll now be by elected officials, the Congress.  We'll continue to prohibit tax exemptions for schools that discriminate and for the first time that will be the law of the land. And we help to reserve the rights and liberties of religious schools as long as they don't discriminate. 
 No, because we went right ahead, and I was having talks with Senators about this. Maybe we didn't act as quickly as we could have. And, as I say, I'm not defending that we proceeded on a course that was as well planned as it might have been.  So, we were mistaken in that regard. But don't judge us by our mistakes. I'm probably going to make more of them. But judge ushow well we recover and solve the situation.  Classified Information 
 What we're doing is simply abiding by the existing law. It is against the law tofor those who are not authorized to declassifyto release classified information. And I know that I've been told repeatedly that what is happening is nothing new, that it's been done under administrations. But I do think that it reached a new high here of the leaks that were destructive to the foreign policy we were trying to conduct, that endangered delicate negotiations that were going on. And all we're doing is implementing the law. It is against the law for anyone to release this information.  We need to protect national security and our ability to conduct foreign policy. And as to any specifics, Bill Clark is drawing up some specifics of that kind. But they will all be within the law. And they'll have to be judged, what particular things are done will be judged on the individual case. It will not interfere with our determination to have an open administration present information that properly belongs to the press.  But we must stop that leak which, as I say, several times has really endangered things that we were trying to accomplish. And we're not doing anything that, as I say, is not in the law today, and we will certainly protect the constitutional rights of our citizens. 
 Well, the trouble is, if I try to give you specifics on that, then I'm leaking, and 
 No[laughing]because I think that any one of you could see the situation in which you are dealing on a very sensitive matter with someone, and suddenly those people you're dealing with read something in the paper that enrages them. And you're put in the position of trying to say, "It isn't so. Please believe us." And this has happened on a number of occasions. 
 Jerry ? No, Jerryand then I'll get to you.  Concerns of Blacks 
 I respond to it with the simple answer that it isn't true. And I know that there are some leaders in various organizations and so forth who have said things of this kind. But I am for affirmative action; I am against quotas. I have lived long enough to know a time in this country when quotas were used to discriminate, not end discrimination.  I have already explained myself with regard to the discrimination in education, and I think that my record will stand for itself, if anyone wants to look at it, that I have been on the side of opposition to bigotry and discrimination and prejudiceand long before it ever became a kind of national issue under the title of civil rights. And my life has been spent on that side. 
 Well, one of the things that's needed, I think, was illustrated in the local paper on Sunday. I made it a point to count the pages of help wanted ads in this time of great unemployment. There were 24 full pages of classified ads of employers looking for employees. What we need is to make more people qualified to go and apply for those jobs, and we're going to do everything we can in that regard.  Admiral Hyman G. Rickover 
 Well, I don't know about the latter. He's not interested in being just a White House adviser, and I do know that the naval offer was one in which they truly believed that he had great service to still renderin that he would have an office-the Secretary of Navy and staff, and that he would be there where he could make a great contribution.  Now, I don't know what his decision has been on that. I would hope that he would accept that, because he could be of service to his country, although I know this: If he doesn't want to serve, it would be difficult to impose on him, because that's been a long lifetime of sterling service to this nation. 
 What? 
 Yes, he explained to me-and I could understand thatthat that didn't sound very much like what he'd be interested in. Yes, ma'am.  Abortion 
 I have been one who believes that abortion is the taking of a human life. And I know the difficulty of the question that you ask. I also do know that-because I won't answer it in that personal termbut I do know that I once approved the law in California that allowed that as a justification in the line of self-defense, just as a mother has a right, in my view, to protect her own life at the expense of the life of the unborn child. I am very concerned, because I have found out since, that that was used as a gigantic loophole in the law, and it was justit literally led to abortion on demand on the plea of rape.  Now, I wish I could have a solid answer for you. On that basis, I would be hesitant to approve abortion on that basis. So 
 I can't say that I have really looked at or studied this particular proposal. I can just say to you that following up on the hearings that were held on the Hill as to when life begins, I think that everyone has overlooked the real finding. The fact that they could not resolve the issue of when life begins was a finding in and of itself. If we don't know, then shouldn't we morally opt on the side that it is life?  If you came upon an immobile body and you yourself could not determine whether it was dead or alive, I think that you would decide to consider it alive until somebody could prove it was dead. You wouldn't get a shovel and start covering it up. And I think we should do the same thing with regard to abortion.  Richard V. Allen 
 The changes that have been made with regard to the operation method were already under consideration. We did not dismiss Richard Allen, and I think he himself knew that it would be difficult for him after all that had happened. But he's still a part of the administration.  He continues right now helping uswe're restoring PFIAB. I use the Washington custom of putting the initials together in a name, because it's difficult for me to always remember that that means the Presidential Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, which I think was a very valuI got it right 
a very valuable thing that was discontinued a few years ago. We're restoring that. We have appointed the Board and have a Chairman, and he is serving as a consultant at this point, which does not mean that that's all that he is going to do.  But he is a part of the administration. And I know that he was cleared and regret the whole thing that took place. Judy ?  Federalism 
 I don't really believe it will, because I was a Governor of one; I know how well States can operate. There might have been a time in our history when there were things in States that varied to a great extent, but then people moved from those States if they were unhappy with the way government was working. That's one of the great secrets of our freedomis that we're a federation of sovereign States.  I am convinced thatwell, for one thing that was lacking in those early days was a lack on the part of the Federal Government. It is where constitutional rights are concerned. I believe in many of the things the Federal Government has usurped in the last half centuryand is now doingthat they could be better run at the State level. But I also believe that the Federal Government has an obligation to enforce the constitutional rights of even the least individual among us, wherever he may be, if those rights are being denied, and to do so at the point of bayonet if necessary. 
 We're hoping they're not going to be receiving less revenue. What has happenedand from my own experience of having to deal with programs that were mandated by the Federal Government and with help from Federal funds-most of those programs are not totally federally funded, they're a combinationbut we found that the restrictions imposed by the Federal Government, the red tape, the administrative overhead was such that had we had more leeway, more freedom, we could have given better service to the people we were trying to help at a much lower cost.  It's like the one incident that I spoke of in New York the other day in my remarks of a county with an elderly citizens' warm food program. And they were spending 50-some thousand dollars, and only $3,000 of that was going for food; the $50,000 was going for administrative help. They're now doing it with volunteers. They're spending $6,000 in food, feeding twice as many people, and it only costs $6,000, not 50-some thousand. 
 Well, if their constitutional rights are being violated, then we have a duty, the Federal Government, to go in and see that they aren't violated.  Capital Investment 
 I don't think they have failed. I know that a great many industries have the plans already for modernization and expansion. I think there's a little caution at work, and perhaps part of that is waiting to see what the Federal Reserve System is doing, because there's been an upsurge, for example, in the money supply just recently, which sends, I think, the wrong signal to the money markets. In other words, they want to be more sure that interest rates and inflation are going to continue coming down as they have been.  And I know that the entire steel industry has a multibillion-dollar expansion plan, and they have personally informed me that they are ready to go forward with this plan. And I think we're just seeing a little caution; they want to make sure before they proceed with them. But it's in a number of other industries that the plans are there, ready to go and be implemented.  Paul A. Volcker 
 Well, I can't respond to that, because the Federal Reserve System is autonomous. The employeesor the members of that commission are term appointees. They're not serving at anyone's pleasure. And I justthere's no way that I can comment on that. Classified Information 
 I have to say that any of those thingsto answer that, that has to be the specific case. Now, I know in one agency in the Government right now, a major agency, there are some people voluntarily taking these, because they themselves knew that they had association with and knowledge of a tremendous leak that occurred. But all of thoseI'm awaiting the plan that Bill Clark comes up withbut I think any of the things that are prescribed by law are there for a reason, and it will depend on the individual case.  Relations With News Media 
 No, I don't believe so. All we're doing is what every administration before us has done and we hadn't been doing. It's simply a case so that we all know what is going on. And, also, we've seen the situation when it would have been very, I think, educational for the people and advantageous for us if two or three particular issues could have been brought before the public; and because of not checking with each other, we found three separate departments all going at once with their statements.  So, it gives us the opportunity to make sure that all of us are familiar with where they're going or, if we have something that we think would be additional on what they're going to talk about from their department, that we can see they get that.  Defense Policy 
 I hope and pray with all my might that the weapons won't be used. I also happen to believe that that is the purpose. If military defense is well done, it doesn't have to be used. And we've never gotten in a war because we were too strong. But the purpose of this military program, we're engaged in rebuilding something that was allowed to deteriorate very badly over recent years. We are way behind where we should be now. Our economic problem, regard to budgets and all, would be minimal today if we were simply carrying on with a defense establishment that had been properly maintained.  I might also point out that with all the argument and concern over that in these times of economic stress, that we're spending a smaller percentage of the gross national product on the military than has been spent in many, many years past in peacetime.  But the purpose is if we're to sit down with the enemypotential enemy and talk arms reductions, which we're doing right now, we're going to be far more successful if that adversary knows that the alternative is a buildup to a commensurate level with him on our side.  So, up until now, in previous negotiations they haven't had to make any concession, because we were unilaterally disarming. But now I think it's all explained in a cartoon that one of your publications used some time ago, and that was Brezhnev speaking to a general in his own army, and he said, "I liked the arms race better when we were the only ones in it." Ms. Thomas. Thank you, Mr. President. The President. Oh, I justHelen, did youI think Mary  got up before you did, Helen, so I'll take her question. Ms. Thomas. Mary beat me to the  Private Charitable Contributions  Ms. McGrory. Mr. President, in New York last week, you called upon the rich to help the poor in this present economic difficulty. Are you planning to increase your own contributions to private charity to set an example to the rich people of this country to do more for the poor? The President. Mary    Ms. Thomas. Now are you sorry?   The President. Helen, I just want you to know whenever you speak from now on, I'm shutting up and moving.   No, Mary, I'll tell you, you give me a chance to explain something that's been of great concern to me. I realize the publicity that is attended upon the tax returns of someone in my position. And I realize that some have noticed what seemed to be a small percentage of deductions for worthwhile causes, and that is true. And I'm afraid it will be true this year, because I haven't changed my habits. But I also happen to be someone who believes in tithing-the giving of a tenth. But I have for a number of years done some of that giving in ways that are not tax deductible with regard to individuals that are being helped.  And I'm afraid that to avoid future questions of this kind, maybe beginning this year, I'm going to have to start publicly doing some things. But my conscience is clear as to what I have been giving. And it has been for the reason that I've just told you, that the tax law doesn't say you help people, not organizations, that you canor not by way of an organizationthat you can deduct it.  So, you can be watching. It'll be the same situation this year. Next year, I'll try to be more public with what I'm doing. Ms. Thomas. Thank you, Mr. President.  The President. I have to go now. Thank you. Note: The President's seventh news conference began at 2 p.m. in the East Room at the White House. It was broadcast live on nationwide radio and television. 
