Arms Control  The President. Good evening. I have a statement. I'm gratified that a bipartisan consensus on arms control is emerging from the recommendations of the Scowcroft commission. Their report combined into one package three of our top priority goals-modernization, deterrence, and arms control. And I'm integrating their arms control recommendations into our START proposals. I will also support their proposal to develop a small, single-warhead missile for more stable deterrence in the future.  Many in the Congress have shared their thinking on arms control with us. Close cooperation can show the Soviets that we Americans stand united, ready to negotiate in good faith until we succeed in reducing the level of nuclear weapons on both sides.  Working together and exploring initiatives such as a proposed mutual builddown of strategic nuclear forces, we can keep America strong and achieve arms reductions that strengthen the peace and benefit all mankind. I congratulate both Appropriations Committees for their bipartisan approval of the MX Peacekeeper missile, recommended by the Scowcroft commission. I look forward to prompt approval of this vital program by the full House and Senate. It'll be one of the most important arms control votes of the 98th Congress.  The Scowcroft commission demonstrated it could take on a complex issue and achieve bipartisan agreement. The question now is whether the Congress can also reach a consensus with a resolution and unity to strengthen our national security, reduce the risk of war and, ultimately, achieve reductions of nuclear weapons.  Another subject. The Senate will soon reconsideror considerno, reconsider is the proper worda budget resolution. Some say the congressional budget process is at stake. I say the stakes for the American people are greater. The real question is, do we keep our hard-won economic recovery moving forward or do we stop recovery by reversing course? The answer for most Americans is clear.  In January 1 proposed a commonsense budget to reduce deficits through defense cuts and a domestic spending freeze, but with virtually no new taxes in 1984 or '85. The House and the Senate Budget Committees said no. They have voted to increase domestic spending and to raise the people's taxes by over a quarter of a trillion dollars. That's a $3,550 tax hike for a typical family over the next 5 yearsenough to pay for nearly 9 months of grocery bills.  I tried again, supporting the so-called "Domenici compromise" with less defense and more domestic spending than I really wanted, and to no avail. It is time to draw the line and stand up for the people. I will not support a budget resolution that raises taxes while we're coming out of a recession. I will veto any tax bill that would do this.  And I will veto spending bills that would rekindle the fires of inflation and high interest rates. The American people didn't send us to Washington to continue raising their taxes, spending more on wasteful programs, or weakening our defense. They sent us here to stop that, and that's what we're going to try to do.  Now, Helen .  Fiscal Year 1984 Budget \. Helen, I think the fact is in February of '81, we were speaking the tone of all of the economic advisers there are, and no one foresaw the falling off the cliff that took place in July. We had been in a recession since 1979 in this country, and no one knew or believed that it was going to take that big dip that it took then, and which many people referred to as a "separate recession." We altered, naturally, our estimates on that. We know that we're going to have to have a sizable deficit in '83 and in '84. But what we're trying to do in our budget planningand running into some objectionsis set us on a path of decreasing deficits to where we can look down the road a few years and see ourselves approaching a balanced budget.  This was what the '84 budgetthat I have mentioned here, my remarks, and that I submitted to the Congress earlier this year for '84was designed to do, to set us on that kind of a path. Of course, about 50 percent of the budget deficits, we have to say, are made up or are based on the recession. And as we have recovery and begin to come out of this, that will have an effect, also, on the size of the deficits. \. Well, in the budget that I submitted, we called it sort of a freeze at the time. And what it was based on was the 1983 budget, the present budget, plus 4 percent across-the-board for domestic spending. And this was on an estimate that we could bring inflation down to a 4-percent figure. So, it was going to be for '84, the '83 budget adjusted for inflation.  Well, we have inflation down to less than 4 percent. And so if we adopted that budget, we would be giving a real increase, over and above inflation, of the '83 spending. And I don't think we've done badly in '83, and that's why I still think that it is a budget that should be considered, because that budget would have set us and started us on the line of declining deficits. Jim ?  Withdrawal of Syrian Forces From Lebanon \. Well, for one thing, the Syrians are on record. They were invited by Lebanon to come in and help them in the troubles that were going on in Lebanon, and now Lebanon has said they're no longer needed and has invited them out. But, at the same time, the Syrians have repeatedly said that when the other forces leave, when the Israelis leave, and so forth, they, too, will leave Lebanon. Now, I grant you they're saying some different things today, but I also know that a number of their Arab allies are urging them to stick with their word and to leave when all forces are prepared to leave. And I can't believe that the Syrians want to find themselves alone, separated from all of their Arab allies. \. Well, I think that we'd make the kind ofI think they should be able to see that they would have the same kind of relationship with us that other countries there in the Middle East have. I don't think that the negotiations should include inviting the Soviet Union into the Middle East. I don't see what reason they have to be there. Possibly there is pressure on the Syrians coming from the Soviets, who now have several thousand of their military forces in there in addition to the missiles and so forth.  George?   Conflicts of Interest and Nepotism \. I misnamed you. I'm sorry. \. Well, I think since every one of these things that you've mentioned is being corrected, or the people themselves involved, simply because there might be a perception of wrongdoing, have offered their resignationsI think it goes back to what has been an attempt on the part of some to portray our administration as always being involved in this sort of thing.  But I would like to cite that in almost all of the cases back over these 2 years and several months, none of the allegations were ever proven, and everything turned out all right. But then as time goes on, there's a tendency to refer back, and it reminds me of a producer in Hollywood once, who refused to hire a director. And the picture that he refused to hire the director for turned out to be a failure. And the next time the director's name came up, the producer said, "No, he was associated with one of the worst failures I ever had." I think there's something of that tone that goes on with what we've been doing.  Now, the people that were hired by USIAI think it is being well managed, and I think there's been a vast improvement in that agency under its present direction. And the young people that were hired were hired because they were eminently well-qualified for the jobs. And I think in many cases, like most of the people that we've appointed to government, they took those supposed high-paying jobs at something of a sacrifice in relation to what they could get out in civilian life. \. Well, isn't almost anyone that you appoint to a position in government someone that you either know or you know through someone? Because, how else do you find the kind of people that you want for the jobs?  Nepotism, in my mind, would be if the person in charge was hiring his own relatives. And there's been nothing of that kind going on.  Yes, Jerry .  White House Staff \. Well, it isn't going on. And I think it was much more exaggerated, by way of leaks and so forth from others, than it really was.  Now, I think any time when you have an administration, and you have a number of people, and you've got issues in which there are varieties of options and so forth, you're going to find times when some will be on one side of one option, some on the other. And I make the decisions, and so sometimes some are losers and some are winners. But I don't think there's anything that can't be worked out and hasn't been worked out there among our top staff. Sam ? Yes?  The Budget Deficit and Interest Rates \. If interest rates were to go up, of course. But I do not see any sign of that. And they have come down considerably, as I have repeatedly said, to half of what they were just a short time ago and when we started.  And I know that perceptions in the marketplace can sometimes influence the people in the marketplace. And we have to watch out for things of that kind. But all of the economic indicators are such that I see no reason why they should be going up. As a matter of fact, I think in the very near future we're going to see a further drop in interest rates.  Paul Volcker \. Yes. \. Sam, as I have said before, we don't discuss the possible appointees that face us until the time comes. And when the time is right, why, we'll get together on that subject and decide what our course is going to be. Andrea ?  Grain Negotiations With the Soviet Union \. No. I do not think it's that. And, as you know, I had always disagreed with using grain as a single economic weapon, back when it was imposed as an embargo, and lifted that embargo. All that we have done is agreed to sit down with the Soviet Union to explore the idea of a long-term agreement. And I think that there are a couple of reasons for this.  One of them, it will, I think, restore something of what we lost with the embargo in the eyes of the worldrestore us as being viewed as a dependable provider. That is one thing. Another thing is that I think the benefit will accrue to us, certainly, as much as to them. And, if you want to look at it another way, this is a case in which the Soviet Union which has extended itself so far in building up its military buildup-we're not offering any credit deals or anything of that kind. They're going to have to buy cash-on-the-barrelhead. And that's hard cash that they will have to come up with. \. No. The only conversations we've hadand I think we've resolved them very well; there's peace among us with regard to East-West trade. And the only problems we had were subsidized credit and trade that was going on in which the Soviet Union was being allowed to purchase at below market value. And so this andjust as this is different than the gas deal. In that instance, our allies were making themselves dependent on the Soviet Union and were providing cash badly needed by the Soviet Union. So, there's a little difference between buying and selling. Yes, Joe .  Pardon of Watergate Figure \. Well, I didn't turn anyone down. I have received no recommendation from the Justice Department for other pardons. I did receive the recommendation for the one gentleman. He had never committed a crime of any kind before. He was not, in any way, a ringleader or a great activist in the deed performed. He served his sentence and since then has lived up to the letter of the law and been a very fine, productive citizen. And those are the terms for pardoning someone, so we pardoned him. Bill ?  Withholding Tax on Interest and Dividends \. Well, I'm not going to comment on that, Bill, because I understand that there is some talk of asomething or other of a compromise in it, and I'm going to wait and see what they come up with there on the Hill.  Now, wait a minute. Deborah ?  Possible Soviet Violations of Arms Control Agreements \. It isn't so much as to whether we believe, it's a case of whether you have the evidence to actually pin down an infraction. And you said they tested the weapon again. We, even, aren't sure that this is the same weapon or that they're not testing two weapons. But with the information that we have, from our own trying to verify what is going on, yes, we have reason to believe that very possibly they were in violation of the SALT agreement. And we have appealed to them for more facts, more information on the weapon they tested. So far, they have not provided that information to us. So, all we can tell you is that we have a very great suspicion, but again you can't go to court without a case and without the solid evidence. And it's just too difficult, and we don't have that.  Yes, Candy .  Education \. Not really, because, you see, education is not the prime responsibility of the Federal Government, and the total budget for education in the United States is far greater than the defense budget. As a matter of fact, the Federal Government actually provides less than 10 percent of the cost of education through the Department of Education.  And for that 10 percent, one of the things that's wrong with the school systemand if you want to talk to some local school board members, many of them will confirm this-is that for the 10 percent or less of funding, the Federal Government has wanted about 50 percent of a voice in dictating to the schools and running the schools.  Now, we've gone through a period of a number of years, about 10 years, in which we went from $760 million Federal aid to education to about $14.9 billion, and that's a 2,000-percent increase. And it was during that period that the testing scoresthe college testing, entrance tests, and so forth-began to decline so severely.  Now, I appointed a Commission to study and bring back a report on what we felt was a decline in education in our schools. They brought back a masterful report. And in that report there's very little suggestion for more money. What they're talking about can be corrected without money. It takes some leadership. It takes some return to basics. It takes having students that now have to learn what they're supposed to learn in a class before they're moved on to the next class, just because they've come to the end of the year. And there's an awful lot of that goes on.  It also takes required courses in English, in the basics, in mathematics, in science, particularly in high school. And yet we've seen a time in which you can get credits toward graduation for cheerleading in some of our schools. Or how would you like to graduate by getting straight A's in bachelor life?   We think there's some common sense that is needed. And so we've proven that money, throwing money at it isn't the answer. And the Federal Government can never match the funding of schools at the local and State level, where we've created the greatest public school system the world has ever seen, and then have let it deteriorate. And I think you can make a case that it began to deteriorate when the Federal Government started interfering in education. \. Well, I don't know that so many of those thingsthere would be some increase in money there, I'm quite sure. But again, how much is being wasted on some things that aren't contributing to their education that could be transferred to that? And I think thatwell, right now there are threeTime magazine, just a few days ago, had an article in there about three inner-city high schools: one in the Bronx, New York, one in Los Angeles, one in Austin, Texas. And just by changes from the principal's office down, in leadership, these schools have become what schools are supposed to be, to the extent that students are leaving private schools to transfer to these public schools.  And I want to implement as completely as possible that plan that was submitted to us by this Commission that was investigating education. And it won't cost $11 billion, which a nameless gentleman has suggested he would advocate that we spend.   Lou ?  Nicaragua \. Why, because we want to keep on obeying the laws of our country, which we are obeying.  \. Well, Lou, let me answer it this way: We have tried to negotiate. We have tried to talk and to relate on a bilateral basis with the Nicaraguan Government, the Sandinista government.  The only objection that we have to them is, they're not minding their own business. They are attempting to overthrow a duly elected government in a neighboring country. They are supplying direction. They are supplying training. They're supplying arms and everything else that is needed to guerrillas that are trying to overthrow that government.  All we've said to Nicaragua, and from the beginning, is, "Become a legitimate American state. Quit trying to subvert your neighbors, and we'll talk all kinds of relationship with you."  But here is a country, a government, that was not elected, that then threw out part of its own revolutionary forces because they wanted legitimate democracy, and yet at the same time that it's complaining because those same forcesthose are not remnants of the Somoza government that they threw out of office; those are some of their former allies. And all they want from them is for that government to keep the promises it made to the Organization of American States, which were to have elections, to restore human rights, to observe all the democratic principles.  The Miskito Indians are also fighting because they were chased out of their villages, their villages burned, their crops were destroyed or confiscated by this revolutionary government, and the Miskito Indians are fighting for their lives. But what we've said to them is, and will say again, if they'll just start minding their own business, they can get along with all the rest of us.  Now, let meI get stuck over on that side here and seeing everyone  Ralph ?  Embargo of F-16 Aircraft to Israel \. This is a matter now that must go to consultation between the State Departmentthey handle thatand the Congress, and that consultation is about to begin.  Yes, Bob Rowley .  U.S. Marines in Lebanon \. Well, you have to remember what the multinational forces went in there for. The multinational forces are there to help the new Government of Lebanon maintain order until it can organize its military and its police and assume control over its own borders and its own internal security. So, it could be that the multinational forces will be there for quite a period.  And we have to remember 8 years of Lebanon being totally divided with, literally, warlords, and their own independent militias, and so forth, and that's the function and the purpose for them beingfor our multinational forces being there. \. I haven't seen any sign of that. This would depend a lot on Lebanon and their needs and whether they could demonstrate needs for this.  Poll Results on Government Regulation \. It's a case, also, of which government level is the best one to do this and whether this requires a gigantic Federal bureaucracy. When I was Governor of California we did that at the State level, and very effectively. And there are also private sector thingsBetter Business Bureaus-that do much the same thing. But I have toas you know, I'm a Johnny one-note on this. A lot of things that are suggested for the Federal Government, I want to make sure that they aren't the legitimate function of another level of government and that they can't be better done by another level of government.  Jerry ?  Black Voters and Administration Policies \. Jerry, I'd have perfect confidence in our chances with black voters in America if we could get the truth to them. I know that, again, that word "perception" has been carried on, and what the perception is. First of all, you're hearing another official from the White House telling you that, no, we're not casting any voters aside. And, yes, I do think we have a lot to offer.  Now, among the perceptions that somehow our budget cuts have affected the black community more than any otherin our changes in social programs, all we have done is remove from the rolls people that we believe are at an income level that is above what is required for them to be getting some benefits at the cost, or at the expense of their fellow taxpayers. We have increased our ability to help those truly at the lower earning end. And the very fact of what we've been able to do with inflation: a family that had $10,000 in 1979 and 1980, if we had left the inflation rate where it was then, that $10,000-a-year family would only have $7,900 in purchasing power. And that's like cutting their income by $2,100.  I think that as toyou mentioned about civil rightswe are enforcing civil rights at a record level with regard to the charges made for criminal violation of civil rights. The same is true of our abilitythe money that we have regained in wage disputes for people that have been denied their fair wages. We're setting a record in that. We're out ahead of what has been done in the past in any number of those items. We have conducted some 21,000 inquiries into voting, what we think are suspected voting violations. And as you know, we have extended the Voting Rights Act for a longer period than has ever been done in history.  What I think is that a pretty good hatchet job has been done on us. And a great many people sincerely and honestly believe something that just is not true. And my belief has always been, and long before I ever got here, that wherever in this land any individual's constitutional rights are being unjustly denied, it is the obligation of the Federal Governmentat point of bayonet, if necessaryto restore that individual's constitutional rights.  President's Decision on Seeking Reelection \. Jerry, you're misreading to this extent: That's a decision that is not going to be made yet. But I think it would stand to reason that if the answer were no for me, that Republicans would still be under the cloud that I have just described. And I think that I would be very vocal in a campaign on behalfwell, I intend right now to support congressional candidates, senatorial candidates, to the best of my ability, and gubernatorial candidates. Ms. Thomas. Thank you, Mr. President. The President. All right, Helen. Note: The President's 17th news conference began at 8:01 p.m. in the East Room at the White House. It was broadcast live on nationwide radio and television. 
