 Please be seated.   I want you to understand that the election is over, that we are trying to get things in shape to make an orderly turnover of the Government to the successor, and that we want to let the world know that this country is a unified organization in its policy toward the rest of the world.  I was very happy to see that General Eisenhower had told Senator Wiley that he was with the policy on the prisoners of war in Korea. That was one of the main things about which we talked at the meeting the other day when he was down here. Now I will answer questions if I can. 
 Yes. 
 Yes, that's all right. 
 Well, I don't care. You can stop anywhere you please.  
 That's all right, if you want to. 
 The Tuesday meeting. Also "keys" in with the statement I made after I got back to the house. 1   1  See Item 331.  
 If he desires it, yes. 
 If he wants to meet with me, I will be glad to see him any time.  
 I am not going into semantics at all. I am going by the headlines. That is what you all go by.   
 If he desires it, yes. 
 Sometime in that neighborhood. I think he is coming to Washington, and I will see him when he comes here. 
 Did you read my telegram to Governor Stevenson ? If you haven't read it, you will find that I do. 
 I will ask him nothing. 
 Except that I will tell him I will cooperate with him in reorganizing the Democratic Party.  
 Yes. Yes. Of course the question was raised. 
 No, I can't tell you a thing except what was in the communique.  
 Yes, it is--very much too early.  On the 21st day of January, I will tell you what I am going to do. 
 I will be a Democrat all the rest of my life, and I think I will have some influence with the Democratic Party. 
 I can't answer that, because I don't know. I don't know. For awhile I am not going to do a darn thing but just do as I please--and sit down and do nothing.  
 No. No.  
 I don't understand the question. There is no kind of transitional arrangement except to turn the Government over as a going concern to the successor. That's all there is to it. 
 It will just be an orderly turnover, which has never been done before. I am establishing a precedent. 
 That's all there is to it. 
 I can't give you any details. 
 No. 
 The budget has been under scrutiny by Mr. Dodge 2  for the last week.  2  Joseph M. Dodge had been named by president elect Eisenhower to represent him as budget liaison officer at the Bureau of the Budget. 
 Not discussed. The budget I shall turn in will be a regular budget, just the same as if I were going to continue to be President. It will be a good, tight budget. It will be an honest budget, just as I have always turned in; and they have been fighting with that budget ever since I have been President, and they have never been able to do very much to it, after I get through with it.  
 I wouldn't say altogether, principally.  
 I sure would. And it still is. Police action for the United Nations-to stop aggression--and nothing else. 
 None whatever. 
 I agree with that, but I still stand by it. I don't care who challenges it. Let history decide that. That was a political proposition--purely.  
 None whatever. It is none of his business.   3 Representative H. R. Gross of Iowa.  4 Oscar R. Ewing, Federal Security Administrator.  
 Never heard of it. And I don't think John has, either. He is just talking on his suspicions. That is the usual thing in a turnover. For his information, when files become 5 years old, they usually are destroyed and burned, but files of any use are not ever destroyed. 
 The President decides what he will do with his own files. 5
 And so do the executive departments.  5 On January 8, 1953, the White House announced that the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Library, Inc., would meet on that day to further develop plans for the fund-raising campaign for the library and research center to be built at Grandview, Mo., as a depository for the papers of President Truman.  The release stated that at a dinner to be attended on the same day by approximately 70 trustees and other interested persons from all over the country, the President was expected to informally explain his conception of the library and its future role as a center of study for the postwar years. The release noted the President's wish that the building with his Presidential papers be given to the United States Government. 
 They have their own conditions down there. They can do as they please with their files. But there is a law, I think, that says they may be destroyed after 5 years, if they are of no use. I think there are some burned nearly every day.  
 That is up to the people themselves. I have no ideas on the subject at all. 
 She asked me if I had any ideas about people resigning. I haven't. They are their own bosses.  
 NO. Its a little too soon to tell you that. 
 Yes. I may tell you a little later on. Say in about 6 months.   
 I did not.  
 Have you studied the precedents on that? 
 I say, have you studied the precedents on it? I am asking you a question. 
 Well, you had better study the precedents; and you will find out--you will get the answer to your question. 
 No, I am not.  What's the matter, have you got another question? 
 Fire away. 
 Those files belong to the Government. He did not take any files. There was just the matter of their storage was what the difficulty was. 
 I don't know. I didn't ask him.   
 It was discussed.  
 I will let Taft study the budget, then make up his mind. He hasn't seen it yet.  
 Senator Taft doesn't know anything about what is going to be in the budget, and when it comes time to submit that budget, I am going to have a budget seminar as usual, 6  and all you boys will know all about it, if you want to find out about it--as you usually do.  6 The President's news conference on the budget, held January 8, 1953, was not transcribed and is therefore not included in this volume.  
 No, I won't.   
 I hope he will. 
 I hope they will. I can only express a hope. I don't know what he is going to do. You ask him. He will answer for himself, I am sure. 
 Well, if you have, I don't know what it could be. Reporter: Thank you, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. It's all right.  Note: President Truman's three hundred and eighteenth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, November 20, 1952. 
