 At the last press conference, in the grand rush, somebody lost his streetcar pass--[laughter]--and a transfer. I don't know if the transfer is any good now.    The following nominations are made of persons to be representatives of the United States of America to the second part of the first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations to be held in New York City, September 1946:  Warren R. Austin, United States Senator from the State of Vermont. Tom Connally, United States Senator from the State of Texas. Arthur H. Vandenberg, United States Senator from the State of Michigan. Mrs. Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, of New York. Sol Bloom, a Member of the United States House of Representatives from the State of New York.  In the absence of the President or the Secretary of State, Mr. Austin will be the senior representative of the United States of America to the second part of the first session of the General Assembly.  And I will nominate the following persons to be alternate representatives of the United States of America to the second part of the first session of the General Assembly:  Charles A. Eaton, a Member of the United States House of Representatives from the State of New Jersey. Helen Gahagen Douglas, a Member of the United States House of Representatives from the State of California. John Foster Dulles, of New York. Adlai E. Stevenson, of Illinois.  That's all the announcements I have. Any questions?
 I don't know whether any of them will or not, except Austin-and he will not receive a salary until he resigns from the Senate. 
 Yes, I think the Secretary of State will be there. The President will not.  
 I have not had a chance to consult with the Secretary of State yet to see. As soon as I have had the opportunity, they will be named.  
 No. I thought I was going to be able to announce them this morning, but didn't quite get ready. As quickly as I can, I will announce them.  
 No, I haven't. I hoped to be able to announce that this morning, but didn't quite get it. As soon as I can, I will make that announcement.  
 No comment.   
 Well, I am going to be home to vote in the primary. That is about as much a part as I can possibly take. 
 Yes, I am interested in that. 
 I am against Mr. Slaughter. If Mr. Slaughter is right, I am wrong.  
 I think that the best comment would be to read Mr. Byrnes' speech the other night. He commented very fully. And Senator Vandenberg also commented very fully in the Senate on the subject. I think that covers it thoroughly.  
 I have. 
 I don't know. I don't think Mr. Pendergast is going to be for Mr. Slaughter. 
 That is for you to answer. 
 I think he has endorsed Axtell. 
 I Certainly did.  
 I don't know. It depends on what--on how the situation develops. If it becomes necessary, I shall do whatever is necessary to--to help the Democratic Party. 
 Well, we just are going to nominate somebody else for the job.  That's the only issue there is. As a member of the Rules Committee, Mr. Slaughter has been opposed to everything that I have asked the Congress to do. That is the principal reason.  
 No, I have no plans. I will probably go home on the 3d of August, instead of the 6th, for the election primary. 
 I don't think Bell has any opposition. If he has, I haven't heard it. 
 I don't think he has anything to worry about. 
 Well, we shall see. 
 I am going to fly home. I will fly back on the 6th. Mrs. Truman is going with me. 
 She is going with me on the plane.  
 I didn't understand that question. I was interrupted. Please ask it again. 
 No-- 
 I have no such intention. 
 Yes. 
 No. I think that will come up in the next Congress automatically. 
 Not that I know of. I haven't heard about it.  
 Yes, when we get a law that requires that office to be filled, it will be filled. 
 Your guess is as good as mine, Tony. 1    1 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 No, I will announce it at the time.  
 I have made no plans whatever. I have made no plans whatever. 
 That's right.  
 I think they do, very substantially. According to the New York Journal of Commerce, I think it is very conclusively proven. 
 I am sure of it, unless we get an OPA bill.  
 Why certainly. I have no reason to doubt that Mr. Hannegan will continue to be chairman of the Democratic National Committee. I think he is a good chairman. 
 Well, I think Hannegan is a good chairman. I have no successor in mind for him. I want him to stay. That is about as strong as I can put it.  
 I didn't know he was there. I knew he went there when he was made a cardinal, but I didn't know he had come back. The last time I saw him was in this office, on the way to Chicago, on his way back from Rome, but--
 Oh, I am speaking of a different party. No, I didn't know anything about Bishop Sheil being in Rome, either. I was thinking of the new cardinal of Chicago.  
 I said that he would come back when peace had been consummated. That was the statement that I made, and that is true. 
 No. I said when the world had reached a peace settlement, then that situation would not be necessary to continue.  
 No. Those matters are being considered by the Secretary of Labor. 
 No.  
 Fire away. 
 I know him very well. I have known his family. I have known him all his life. He is a neighbor of mine. He lives down home. 
 Ed--or En--or something of that sort.  What's his first name?  What's his first name ? 
 Enos--E-n-o-s. That's right.  
 Yes, just--I am going to stay in the White House. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's seventy-fourth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:28 a.m. on Thursday, July 18, 1946. 
