 I have a statement on the so-called housing bill, which I will read to you, and it will be available for you when you go out.   "I have today signed Senate bill 2790, 'To amend the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, and for other purposes.' 1  1 As enacted, S. 2790 is Public Law 864, 80th Congress .  "For reasons which are quite understandable, the Republican leaders in the House of Representatives insisted upon calling this measure a 'housing' bill. But as a housing bill, it is, as the Vice Chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Housing truthfully said, 'practically nothing at all.'  "In this case, as in many others, the Both Congress has failed miserably to meet the urgent needs of the people of the United States. I consider it to be the duty of the President to inform the people as to the actual facts on these vital issues. That is why I have issued, and shall continue to issue, statements commenting on legislation passed by the Congress.  "This so-called housing bill is a hasty patchwork. It was passed by the Congress in the final hours of the session, after the Republican leadership refused to permit the House of Representatives to vote upon the Taft-Ellender-Wagner housing bill. This bill bears no resemblance to the comprehensive housing program included in the Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill.  "It fails to provide for farm housing or for slum clearance.  "It fails to provide for housing research, for financial assistance to large-scale home construction, or for encouraging large-scale production of prefabricated housing.  "It fails completely to aid in meeting our greatest housing need--low-cost rental housing. It makes no provision for publicly assisted low-rent housing--or, in fact, for any rental housing.  "Contrasted with the Taft-Ellender-Wagner housing bill, this measure was properly labeled in the Congress as the 'teeny-weeny' housing bill.  "This bill does two things. First, it increases the funds available for the Government purchase of home mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration and restores the authority to purchase mortgages guaranteed under the GI act, which the Congress allowed to lapse in 1947. This is the so-called secondary mortgage market, which is designed to encourage the supply of private credit to home buyers. Second, the bill purports to liberalize the Government's authority to insure mortgages for veterans' housing cooperatives. But even in these respects the bill is seriously defective.  "With respect to the secondary mortgage market, the bill repeals the present authority of the Government to purchase FHA insured mortgages on rental properties. Thus, it actually eliminates an existing aid to urgently needed rental housing.  "With respect to veterans' housing cooperatives, the bill is practically worthless.  "It purports to aid veterans' cooperatives by authorizing the Federal Housing Administration to insure 95 percent loans to veterans' housing cooperatives. But it does not change the applicable cost limitation of $1,350 per room, established in 1938. Since builders are now having difficulty in most areas in constructing rental housing at $ 1,800 per room, a $1,350 cost limitation nullifies, as a practical matter, the legal authority given by this bill to insure loans to veterans' housing cooperatives.  "There can be no excuse for such slipshod legislation, thrown together only a few hours before adjournment. The 80th Congress had ample time to enact the housing legislation the country needs. The Taft-Ellender-Wagner bill was pending during the full term of both sessions. Exhaustive hearings were held time and time again. But the Republican leadership would not even give the House of Representatives a chance to vote on it.  "The failure to pass decent housing legislation is a sad disappointment to the millions of our people who are so desperately in need of homes, and to the many Members of Congress who tried so hard to break the stranglehold of the little group of men who blocked a decent housing bill.  "We cannot accept as final a decision reached by such undemocratic methods.  "This is one of the many jobs left unfinished by the 80th Congress."  I am ready for questions.  
 I will not comment on that at this time.  
 . I don't know whether I signed it or not. I don't believe it has come before me yet.  
. That has not come up to me yet. There are about 60 or 65 bills that have not come in yet. I will comment on those when they come in. 
. Yes, I shall comment on them as they come up, when it will be necessary for the people to know just exactly what this Congress did to them, not for them. 
 No, no. I will take them as they come. I will take them as they come. You will be informed each time with a statement, as I have been doing up to date.  
 I have not. 
 John Steelman has been offered the job as Secretary of Labor, and he turned it down. He thinks he is more valuable where he is, and so do I.  
 Mr. McGrath is correct.  
 . They have always had free and open conventions in the Democratic convention at every one I have ever attended. 
. I will comment on that at the time. 
 I will comment on that later in the campaign.  
 I have. I like Governor Warren. I haven't anything against Governor Dewey, except that I am going to beat him in this coming campaign. 
 I couldn't hear what you said. 
 That I am going to beat them both in this coming campaign. 
 That is up to General Eisenhower. 
 I didn't read Mrs. Luce. I don't know what she said. What was it? 
 Well, that is up to the Democratic convention. They are going to pick the running mate for me, as they always do. 
 Why, of course, of course. What do you expect me to say to that?  
 I do not. 
 Sure.  
 I have no comment. General Marshall expressed the attitude of this Government after a conference with me. 1   1  Secretary of State Marshall's statement, released to the press on June 30, follows: "We are in Berlin as a result of agreements between the Governments on the areas of occupation in Germany, and we intend to stay. The Soviet attempt to blockade the German civilian population of Berlin raises basic questions of serious import with which we expect to deal promptly. Meanwhile, maximum use of air transport will be made to supply the civilian population. It has been found, after study, that the tonnage of foodstuffs and supplies which can be lifted by air is greater than had at first been assumed."  
 I have no comment. I know nothing about anything in that direction, except what I have seen in the papers, and I have no comment.  
 The President of Venezuela is paying a social call on the President of the United States, to present Bolivar, Mo., with a statute of the Liberator.  
 I will let you know about that later. 
 I will let you know about it later. You will know in plenty of time, so that you can get your clothes packed, if you want to come along. 
 I will comment on that when the time comes. 
 No, no, I can't. The Democratic convention hasn't met yet. When the Democratic convention meets and nominates the candidates and sets out the platform, then I will give you all the information you are asking for. 
 . No, certainly not. That is foolish question number one.  
 We have--I mean for this conference, Miss May. 1    1 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  
 You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and forty-ninth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, July 1, 1948. 
