 Please be seated.  I have a word or two for you before we start the questions.   There has been a lot of hooey about the seizure of the press and the radio. As I told you last week, the President of the United States has very great inherent powers to meet great national emergencies.  1  Until those emergencies arise a President cannot say specifically what he would do or would not do. I can say this, that the thought of seizing press and radio has never occurred to me. I have difficulty imagining the Government taking over and running those industries.   1  See Item 98 .   Now, I want to talk to you a little bit about steel. I told my advisory committee the other day that the reason for the steel seizure  2  was the fact that we are in one of the greatest emergencies the country has ever been in, that in 1945 I had to send an ultimatum to the head of the Soviet Union to get out of Persia. They got out, because we were in a position then to meet a situation of that kind.   2  See also Items 82, 83, 103, 110.  A little later on, the Government of Yugoslavia decided to take Trieste. I sent for General Eisenhower, and General Marshall,  3  and the Navy, and ordered the Mediterranean Fleet into the Adriatic Sea, and told General Eisenhower to send three divisions to northern Italy. There was no march on Trieste.   3  General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, Commander, Allied forces Europe, and Gen. George C. Marshall, former Chief of Staff of the Army.  Then there was an attempt to take over Greece and Turkey. Well, you know the result of that. Greece and Turkey are free countries.  Then came the Berlin airlift, and Berlin is still a free city.  Then came Korea, and that march into Korea was against a United Nations Republic. It was against the whole world. I was in Missouri at that time, and when I came back on an emergency flight, decisions were made to send the 7th fleet off the coast of western Korea and to move divisions into Korea to meet the situation-which we did. And we have met it. And South Korea is still a free country. And I hope some day that Korea will be the republic that the United Nations set up.  Now we had then to go into the defense of the free countries, and we set up the NATO treaties, which were negotiated by Dean Acheson,  4  and carried through to success.   4  Secretary of State.  We are now in the midst of the same emergency. We are trying to arm the NATO countries so they can stand up. We are trying to prevent the Korean army that we have there, along with our allies, from being shot in the back.  And that can only be done by an all-out steel production.  And I felt that we were in the midst of as great an emergency as we have ever faced. I tried to meet it. I have been abused roundly for it. I am not the first President that has been abused under the same circumstances, so I know how to take it.  We want peace in the world. That is all we have been working for since I became the President of the United States. We are going to continue to work for that end as long as I am President of the United States, up to the 20th of January next year. And I hope we will succeed in keeping the peace, which we have done up to date.  Peace in the world means the welfare of every nation in the world. And if we can get the so-called point 4 program working, we will never be able to catch up with our productive machinery with what the world demands and needs.  Now I didn't come over here to make you a speech, I came over here to answer questions. But there has been so much hooey put out about this steel proposition, and about other things, that I felt like I should make a statement to you as to what we really are working for.  There is only one thing, and that is prosperity at home, and peace in the world.  At the present time we have both--almost. And if we can continue, we will have both in its entirety.  Now I will answer questions. 
 Well--[laughter]-- 
 My Press Secretary would like to edit it before he puts it on the record, and I have no objection to its quotation if it works out all right. 
 Well, let's "pend" it. 
 Keep on "pending" it. 
 Well, I will leave that to Mr. Short. I think you can get it.   5  Alexander F. Jones, editor of the Syracuse Herald-Journal and outgoing president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, spoke at the annual dinner of the society's convention in Washington. In his speech Mr. Jones disputed President Truman's assertion in the news conference of April 17  that the President has the power to take control of newspapers and radio stations.  
 Oh, well, that's a political proposition. They have a right to do that, if they want to. I have a pretty good defense.   
 I wonder if the Chairman of the foreign Relations Committee should either quit being a Democrat or quit being Chairman of the foreign Relations Committee?    6  Representative James P. Richards of South Carolina, Chairman of the House foreign Affairs Committee.   7  W. Averell Harriman, Director for Mutual Security.  
 Sure--any place you want to go. 
 I beg your pardon? 
 I have no candidates at the present time. Get that--at the present time. 
 I have no candidates at the present time.  Mr. Short: He said as Democratic national committeeman.  THE PRESIDENT. I have no candidates at the present time.   Mr. President, can you tell us why you decided to change your mind about presenting a plan for putting the civil functions of the Army Engineers in the Interior Department?  THE PRESIDENT. I came to the conclusion, after a lot of study--and I have been studying it for longer than anybody that I know of--that it was not the right thing to do. 
 No pressure at all ever affects me, Pete.  8  You ought to know that by this time.   8  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
 No. I didn't know anything about it, if there was. I have made an unbiased study of the whole thing. I have been making it for the last 5 years or 10 years, and I decided that there wasn't any use doing what the Hoover report  9  called for. I thought it was wrong.   9  President Hoover was Chairman of the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government. His Commission's report on the Interior Department, which included proposed agency transfers to and from the Department, is Printed in House Document 122 . See also Item 98 . 
 There was no shift. There was no shift on my part. I had never made a decision on it. 
 No. 
 That's right. I changed my mind and decided no plan would go up, because I didn't think it was necessary to have a plan when you leave things like they are. 
 I didn't change my mind. I have never been for it. 
 No.  
 Well, you had better read your history and find out. There are a lot of Presidents who have had to make decisions in emergencies, and if you will read history you will find out why they had to make them. But it did not hurt the Republic. In fact, it made the Republic better.  
 Not at all, not at all. 
 All right, nail it. 
 I was answering to 'the point of the welfare of the country, and that's what's at stake.  
 I don't think it has. 
 We'll see about it all. We will let Joe take care of it. I was going to let you read it, Tony.  10      10  Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  
 Well, to start with, there was a gentleman by the name of Jefferson, who paid $15 million for the greatest addition to this country that has ever been made. They tried to impeach him for that, if I remember correctly.  There was a gentleman by the name of Tyler, who agreed to the annexation of Texas. He was the first Vice President, by the way, who became President, and he wouldn't let them call him "acting President." He became President in fact.  Then there was a gentleman by the name of Polk, who made an annexation to the country that was second only to Jefferson's.  And there was a Secretary of State who made a purchase up in the northwest corner of the continent, called Alaska. It was called "Seward's icebox." But it has, I would imagine, a thousand times the assets of what Seward agreed to pay for it as Secretary of State. I think at that time he was working for Andrew Johnson when they bought Alaska. And Johnson approved what he did. Johnson was impeached, but not for that reason.  Mr. Lincoln exercised the powers of the President to meet the emergencies with which he was faced.  So did President Roosevelt.  I don't want to stand here as an authority on the history of the Presidency, but then I like to tell you boys some of the things that are most interesting in the Presidency of the United States.  Now, I am not talking about the individual. I am talking about the Office.  
 That's correct. 
 That really took place. That really took place in 1945.  
 Well, of course I do, May. But then when you meet an emergency in an emergency, you have to meet it.  Mrs. Craig: Yes, sir. Then some of them have said that they thought you could perhaps have met this by asking them for laws, as you did in relation once to labor-- the railroad labor  THE PRESIDENT. I have asked them twice.  Mrs. Craig: Yes, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. I have asked them twice to give me advice on how to meet this situation, and all the advice I get is that I have done wrong, and that I ought to be impeached.   Mrs. Craig: Yes, sir. Then they ask-and I mean--I hear them in the corridors, that is why I am bringing this to you--they say that you could have gained 80 days if you had used the Taft-Hartley law in which something might have been done.  THE PRESIDENT. I requested the labor unions not to strike, back in November; and for 99 days they tried to negotiate and get an answer. I couldn't ask them for another 80 days, May, without being unfair to them.  
 Well now, that piece of legislation has not reached me, and I can't comment on legislation until it's on my desk.  
 No, it hasn't. It's in the record, though. 
 It was a message from me to Stalin to get out of Persia. Unless he did get out, we would put some more people in there. And he got out. 
 No sir, there would not be. 
 No, I can't release it. 
 I can't tell you any more than I have told you. 
 We would take the necessary steps, if he did not get out. And we had a fleet at that time in the Persian Gulf, and we had a lot of soldiers over in that neighborhood--which we haven't got now or anywhere else, unless the Congress goes ahead and gives us a chance to put our defense program into effect. 
 No, that happened back in 1945. 
 No, that has not been made public. 
 He got out of Persia.  
 Well, we used the Persian Gulf as the line through which we sent all the supplies that saved Stalingrad and a great many other of the Russian approaches. We sent them thousands of trucks and tons of ammunition through that route. And they had people in there to guard the route. 
 Yes. 
 Oh, no, that was long before Yalta or anything else took place--long before Tehran. 
 Oh no, that was right after I took office. 
 Before the Potsdam conference, that's right. 
 No, no  Mr. Short: Mr. President, I don't think it could have been before Potsdam, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. Maybe it wasn't. Joe says he doesn't think it was. You can check it. 
 Well, this was another one. This was shortly after, as Joe says, the Potsdam conference. 
 Both in 1945. 
 That's right--that's right.  
 Well, I will tell you what will happen. We will elect a Democratic President, and carry on the present policy.      Whatever the dates are. They are facts that I have stated, except as to the time. 
 It may have been 1946-but then it could have been--but Joe will get you the dates.  11    11  Later in the day, a White House spokesman clarified the President's remarks on Iran and Trieste. The spokesman explained that a formal ultimatum had never been sent to Joseph Stalin but that a note was delivered to Moscow on March 6, 1946, which stated the U.S. position on the retention of Soviet troops in Iran after the deadline agreed upon under the Anglo-Soviet-Iranian treaty of January 29, 1942. The Soviet troops were removed by May 4, 1946.  The spokesman gave June 11, 1945, as the date for Marshal Tito's withdrawal of Yugoslav troops around Trieste.  You don't need to use dates, I am just telling you the facts as they took place. 
 It went through the regular channels. 
 I am not sure. Joe says it may have been later. He may be right. 
 Yes, we had a certain day in which to get out. 
 I say there was a certain day in which to get out. 
 No, I can't. You will have to look up the details. 
 They were in Tehran and every other key position in Iran. 
 We had a mobilized army and navy at that time. That is what we are trying to get now. Not for aggression, but to prevent it.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's three hundred and first news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, April 24, 1952. 
