  I have a few announcements to make. I appointed Roy W. Harper of Missouri to be United States District Judge for the Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri today, in the place of Caskie Collet.  I appointed as Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Cyrus S. Ching of New York, who is widely recognized as an authority on labor relations.  The Housing Reorganization Plan No. 3 Administrator, Housing and Home Finance Agency: Raymond M. Foley of Michigan. Commissioner of Federal Housing Administration: Franklin D. Richards of Utah. Commissioner of Public Housing Administration: Dillon S. Myer of Ohio.  Chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board, term ending June 30, 1949: John H. Fahey of Massachusetts.  Member of the Home Loan Bank Board, term ending June 30, 1951: Nathaniel Dyke, Jr., of Arkansas, Democrat.  Member of the Home Loan Bank Board, term ending June 30, 1950: J. Alston Adams of New Jersey, Republican. 
 It's all mimeographed and tells the life history of each one of them, and a statement on the whole situation, which will be handed to you as you go out, and will answer all your questions in regard to the Home Loan Bank situation.  
 Well, I asked the Budget Director for--to prepare me an outline of the situation, and here is the situation as it is now. I will read you it, then you will get the mimeographed copies too:  "In fairness to all concerned, I do not intend to make any hasty predictions on the amount of so-called 'savings' effected by the Congress in the 1948 budget until all the facts are in.  "A great many complex factors have to be taken into consideration before a complete, accurate, and understandable report can be made. In some cases, Congress has substituted contract authority for direct appropriations; in others, appropriations originally requested for the fiscal year 1947 were not enacted until 1948 and so must be considered as part of this fiscal year.  "In addition, Congress has provided funds for certain agencies, such as the Post Office and the National Labor Relations Board, on a 'part year' basis and instructed agencies to request deficiencies, if necessary, to complete the fiscal year.  "Among the other facts to be determined is the actual effect of rescissions upon expenditures during this fiscal year, since a large part of the rescissions made by Congress were in funds which would not have been spent anyway.  "What is most important, however, is the fact that none of the predictions I have seen have properly related congressional changes in appropriations to estimated expenditures for 1948. In the last analysis, the American people are more interested in how much their Government will actually spend during this fiscal year than they are in shifts and changes in the appropriation structure.  "For these reasons, I have ordered a detailed and exhaustive study of all the facts. When this is completed, I shall issue a review and analysis, supported by detailed tables and summaries, which will bring up to date revised estimates of receipts and expenditures for this fiscal year."  And I will have no further comment to make on the budget until I have all the facts before me so I can understand them, and so you can understand them.  
 Judge Collet is on the Court of Appeals. 
 He was appointed. He was appointed to that job. That is the reason for the vacancy. 
 He was confirmed. 
 Yes. 
 You'll have all the facts on it when you get to your mimeographed copies.  
 NO. I have said all I had to say when that statement was given out. When further details are out, I will keep you informed.  
 It will. 
 Interim appointment. I beg your pardon? 
 It is a recess appointment. He will serve until he is confirmed. 
 He can serve in either end of the State, in either one of the Eastern or Western Districts of the State of Missouri.  
 None whatever.  
 NO, I am not. None has ever been under consideration. 
 This year.  
 Well, they will come up as is necessary. Whenever I feel like going anywhere over a weekend I shall go, and when I go I will let you know so some of you fellows can go along, if you want to.  
 No I can't. I am--just as soon as I know all the details I will inform you right away. 
 I hope they will go. They have been asked to go.  
 NO comment whatever. 
 He wanted to know if I have had any--heard anything from my old committee.  
 He wanted to discuss with me that--the tunnel situation between the Battery and Brooklyn. There is some financial situation in which the Reconstruction Finance Corporation is interested, and he is talking to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation this afternoon.  
 I have no comment. No comment.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and fifteenth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4:02 p.m. on Thursday, August 7, 1947. 
