 Please be seated.  I have no announcements this morning. I am ready for questions.  
 I have no comment on that.   1   See Item 149 .  
 I have no comment. That is up to the people to decide. 
 No. I'm not running in the Republican preconvention contest at all.
 I don't know. I may talk about that later. 
 No. 
 He said did the General spell out the issues, and I said I didn't know.   2  Anthony H. Leviero of the New York Times.  
 I don't know. He hasn't seen me yet. He has got a right to talk to me about anything he wants to, just as any other Senator has, or any other citizen, for that matter. 
 That is correct. That is correct.  
 No. I have no comment on it. 
 NO comment. 
 Never.    3  On June 2 the Supreme Court ruled the seizure of the steel plants unconstitutional. 
 Yes. 
 I will at a later date.  4   Not today. The best thing for you to do is to read the Constitution of the United States. It can be amended only by one method.   4   See Item 161.  
 No. 
 None in contemplation at the present time. 
 I don't know.  
 NO, I do not. The Attorney General asked me to spend the night at his farm, when I go up there to commission that submarine,  6  and I accepted the invitation. There is no political implication in it whatever.   5  J. Howard McGrath, former Attorney General.   6  See Item 170. 
 Just a social visit. 
 I don't know what the proper word to use is.  Mr. Short. Keel laying, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. Keel laying, that's what it is. You don't commission it until they are ready to go to sea. 
 This is a keel laying, so they tell me, whatever it is--a celebration of the power use of atomic energy, and that is what we have been working on for a long time.  
 Does that word need a definition? 
 I am not making any statements as to the time limit on what my actions will be. I am a freeborn American citizen, and a delegate to the National Democratic Convention. You wait and see what develops.  
 Not until after the President is nominated.  
 Well, now, I think you are straining a point here. When I say I am neutral in this preconvention campaign, I mean just exactly what I say. 
 After the President is nominated.  
 I intend to go, but I am not going as a Presidential nominee. I am going as a retiring President of the United States. I like to go to conventions. I wish I could go straight through this one, but you know I can't. It will create a disturbance if I go there early.  
 After the Presidential nominee has been confirmed out there. It will not be the present occupant of the White House, you can be assured of that.  Somebody wanted to ask a question ? 
 Well, you know charges of that sort usually originate in warped minds. They would try to do the same thing if they had the opportunity. They would like to charge a man who wouldn't do a thing like that with that sort of action.  
 No, I do not. 
 I have no comment to make on the quarrels in the Republican Party. They please me very much, but I don't want to get mixed up in them!  
 Well, now, I should like for them to read the comments of the English tailors.  
 No, Of course not, but then they are working for their own industry and they hoped I would come over there and probably do the same thing you are asking me to do now, which I don't intend to do in either case.   
 Speak into this thing. 
 No comment.  
 That is a message from the head of one state to the message of another, and it is confidential and no comment will be made on it. 
 Not as yet.  
 AS Soon as I have had a chance to analyze the bill, and when it gets to my desk, I will comment on it in words that you can understand.  7    7  On June 20 the President approved the Mutual Security Act of 1952 .  
 It has not come to my desk yet. I will act on it when it comes.  8    8  for the statement by the President upon signing the bill relating to the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the District of Columbia, see Item 160.  
 That is correct. You don't think I would let them go if I did anticipate war would break out?    9  The President's daughter Margaret and her longtime friend, Mrs. John E. Horton, daughter of the Secretary of the Treasury and Mrs. john W. Snyder. 
 Are you out of "soap"?  
 I know nothing about the California situation, but I think we had a very difficult one in 1948, and the Californians came out all right, and they will this time.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's three hundred and seventh news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, June 5, 1952. 
