 Gentlemen, good morning. I thought maybe you might feel inclined to ask a few questions. I have no statements to make to you, or anything of the sort. Maybe I had better stand up. You can all sit down. 
 I would much rather you just sat down because I can see you better.  
 Give the photograph boys a chance now. Well, if you have any questions--sit down--sit down now.  
 I can't answer that question.  
 Had a very pleasant visit with Governor Cox. He came down to pay a personal call on me. The first time I had ever seen him, except as one of the audience which listened to him speak in 1920, and I wasn't very deep in politics at that time.  1 James Cox, former Governor of Ohio and Democratic candidate for the Presidency in 1920.  
 No comment. 
 Well, I think this. Every State has a perfect right to decide on the manner in which it wants to carry on its elections, provided they are fair, and provided they give everybody a chance to express his opinion at the polls.  2 Governor William M. Tuck of Virginia had proposed a new election law providing for unpledged presidential electors and limiting political parties on the 1948 ballot to those which were listed in 1944. 
 To express his opinion at the polls. Everybody who is entitled to vote should have the right to vote. If you remember--I will give you a lecture on the Constitution-the electoral college was set up with the idea in mind that the presidential electors would be elected as free agents, and that they would meet in Washington and elect the President. Since 1836 that has not been the case. They have been elected and instructed by the States to cast the ballot a certain way. I think the Virginians want to try to restore the old constitutional approach to the thing. Originally it didn't work very well.  
 I Can't comment on that at this time.  
 Yes. I am saving that up for you, Eddie.  1  When you get back, I have a very, very erudite lecture on architecture that I think you will like. Your paper may not like it.   1  Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post.  Joseph A. Fox, Washington Evening Star: Mine, too, won't like it!  THE PRESIDENT. I put you in the picture before. Now I think Eddie ought to have a chance.   
 No, I have not. 
 Yes, I do. 
 I do.  
 Go ahead.  1  Paul R. Leach of the Chicago Daily News. 
 I have nothing to say about it. I am so darned busy with foreign affairs and domestic affairs and other situations that have developed that I haven't had any time to think about any presidential campaign, or anything else, except that the presidential year is having a very bad effect on all approaches to the settlement of the difficulties with which we are faced. 
 I have no comment to make on vice presidential candidates? 
 I will answer that question when it happens--if it does.   I would like to ask you some questions. I always sit in the frying pan, and am perfectly willing to do it, and I enjoy it about as much as you do. Have you been well taken care of, and well fed, and are you comfortably situated where you live? 
 Who is the banker? I want to interview him.  
 Joe Short? 
 All the money in the bank, as usual.   1  Joseph H. Short of the Baltimore Sun. 
 All approaches to the settlement of both foreign and domestic affairs; it can't help but do that. It's a situation which we have to face and meet as well as we can. 
 Not at all--just makes it more difficult to meet, that's all, because we have so many candidates for President in the Senate and out of it, and in various other places that it is difficult for them to have an unbiased and nonpartisan approach to these matters. You can't blame them for that.  Governor Cox and I discussed that same situation. In the 1920 campaign we were faced with exactly the same situation--almost exactly the same situation. 
 No, I don't think so. I can't remember. I was not, as I said, as deeply interested in politics then as I am now. I had just returned from the war.  
 No. I prefer not to make any at this time. I may comment on it later.  
 Yes, I have. Every day. 
 Every day, except when we were at sea. 
 I haven't talked to General Marshall himself, but I have been in touch with the State Department every day since we have been away, and every other department nearly in the Government. I have talked personally to nearly every member of the Cabinet since I have been away. The only thing in connection with this that is different from the White House is just the change of scenery. We have direct wires that go there, and I get a pouch nearly every day, and sign just as many documents and make just as many decisions as if I were sitting at the desk in the Executive Office.    
 The effect of the presidential year on the situation in the Government? Sure. Everybody knows that. No harm in quoting it.  
 No. I am perfectly happy with this one.  
 I never heard of them. No overtures have been made to me or to the State Department or to any other branch of the Government officially--or unofficially, either. 
 I saw that in the paper, but that is the only place. 
 Yes, that is correct. My position on that hasn't changed a bit.  
 You had better ask Mr. Farley that. He will know and can give you the answer.  
 Haven't heard about it.  
 The foreign situation in general, and the housing program in particular at home, and several other domestic matters that are pending that should have only a nonpartisan approach.    I made a dangerous mistake by letting you sit down!   Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and thirty-eighth news conference was held on the lawn of the President's quarters at the Submarine Base, Key West, Fla., at 10 a.m. on Monday, March 1, 1948. 
