 I have no special announcements to make. I will try to answer questions, if you have any.  
 Same answer to that question as last week. After General Vaughan has testified, then I will answer your question. Not before.  1  See note in Item 200.  
 That is a possibility.  
 Well, I think that was the implication intended. 
 I will answer that question when the time comes. I am not in Coolidge's position, who said "I am not--I do not choose to run."  
 I would be happy to see Governor Lehman in the Senate of the United States. That is up to the State of New York, however. I am not in New York politics.  
 Federal loans for toll roads? The Reconstruction Finance Corporation has been making that sort of loan, and they are good, and there is nothing wrong with them.  
 There might be a possibility, after the tickets are made up. I won't be in the primary. I will be trying to elect Democratic Congressmen after they are nominated. 
 Not necessarily. I will go any place I please. 
 That isn't the primary. After the nominations are all made, and the chips are down for the election. 
 I can't answer specific questions. You will have to wait until things develop.  
 There can be no comment on that.  
 I surely do. I know it will, in fact.  
 I haven't heard of that. There will be an announcement if that does take place, and you will know in plenty of time so that no one will scoop you. 2   2  On September 21, 1949, the Senate confirmed the appointment of Robert Murphy as Ambassador to Belgium.  
 Well, don't you know that it's a solid rule that the economy must always be in the other fellow's district and not mine? That has always been the case. When I was in the Senate I was very careful to see that Missouri didn't get gypped out of anything.  
 No concrete developments. Same answer as last week.  
 No, I didn't see him, unless I met him last night. I met so many last night I can't remember those I did meet. I had no conversation with him.  
 Secretary Johnson is following instructions from the President. We told the country that the reorganization of the military would result in economies, and it will. That's the demonstration of it.  
 I can't answer the question.  
 Not the slightest. Not the slightest. We are trying to make an efficient defense setup, and we will have one before we get through.  
 It has not come up yet, but I probably will reappoint him. 3   3 On October 6, 1949, the Senate confirmed the reappointment of Lowell Mason to the Federal Trade Commission for a term of 7 years.  
 That is another economy measure that doesn't seem to meet the general approval. You know, I think there were 16,000 beds called for in that program, and we had 5,000 beds vacant; and the reason for that cut was that we had neither the doctors nor the patients to occupy those extra beds. The hospital construction program, of course, is a local district proposition.  
 Well, I would like to see the Cardinals win, of course, and I could be tempted very easily.  
 Yes. I saw him yesterday, too. And last night!  
 Yes, I say what about it?  
 Yes, what about it? 
 That's my business. He is a friend of mine. I saw him because I wanted to, and I'll see him again whenever I get ready.  
 I told the committee this morning that I hoped to be able to get there. I never can tell this far in advance, whether I can go or not. Naturally, I would like to be present.  4 For the President's address in Kansas City at a dinner honoring Democratic National Chairman William M. Boyle, Jr., on September 29, see Item 220.  
 I think that view has been expressed; and that was a confidential conversation between the Ambassador and myself, and I have no comment to make.  
 What's that? 
 I understood that it was a recess, and the Congress is in control of its own actions. It is not necessary for them to consult the Executive when they want to take a recess.  
 I think I made that statement along in January or February, and it still stands.  
 I think all the recriminations have all been in the newspapers, and nowhere else. 
 There have been no recriminations-- 
--no recriminations between the two governments. 
 Yes. I wouldn't have the conference, if we didn't expect some good to come from them.  There's a cartoon--I was going to say there's a good cartoon in the Star the other day--I have to give Joe Fox a boost every once in a while--  Joseph A. Fox : I'm in left field.   THE PRESIDENT.--that cartoon showed Uncle Sam on one side of the ocean and John Bull on the other, very amiable to each other, but there are two little boys which say newspaperman, pitching bricks to each other.  
 Yes, I saw it. That would be Kem all right.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and ninety-fifth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, August 1949. 
