  I have one announcement to make. Mr. Forrestal is resigning effective the 31st of March, and Louis Johnson will succeed him as Secretary of Defense. 
 No--he has not. 
 He stopped in to see me about another matter--not that. 
 At his own request. He has been trying to resign for a year. The letters will be released and will be available for you after the press conference. It will tell the truth and the facts. 
 March 31st. 
 He is not.  
 They are my--they are my private business, and there is no comment on it.  
 That's right. 
 The matter was under consideration by the Federal Reserve Board, and by the Board of Economic Advisers, and by the Senate-House Committees on economic reports; and between us we all came to the conclusion that some relaxation was necessary, and that's the reason it was done. 1  1 The installment-buying changes announced by the Federal Reserve Board on March 2 extended the period of installment payments to 21 months instead of the 15 to 18 months formerly permitted. The Board also reduced down payments from the previous 20 percent requirement to 15 percent, except in the case of automobiles where a 33 1/3 percent down payment was still required 
 Well, haven't you been familiar with the economic situation as it has developed? 
 You won't do that. 
 Yes. 
 That is correct. You see, the objective of the Full Employment Act of 1946 was to put us in a position to meet either a spiral going up or one going down, and that is--those powers are being used within--in the commonsense way to prevent the thing from going in either direction. 
 Not necessarily. 
 It's going both ways.  I will prove it to you. The only fall in prices has been in farm products. Lead, zinc, and iron, and all those things that go to make up building materials are on the same spiral they have always been, and so we are trying to get that thing leveled off by 'putting a roof on the spiral going up and putting a floor on the spiral going down. That is the objective of the whole thing. That is the reason the bill was passed.  
 I have no comment to make on that.  
 I am not in controversy with Senator Cain. 
 I haven't received any such letter, and if I do receive one which has been given out before its arrival at the White House, I will have no comment on it. 2  2 The letter from Senator Harry P. Cain of Washington was printed, with related documents, in the Congressional Record of March 3 . It expressed Senator Cain's opposition to the appointment of former Governor Mort Wallgren as chairman of the National Security Resources Board.  In the letter the Senator stated, "My opposition to Mr. Wallgren is both firm and honest. In the problem before us I respectfully suggest that the nominee, while perhaps possessing virtues required by some assignments, is singularly lacking in what you require from advisers and assistants whose sole objective is that of keeping our nation free at home and secure against aggression from abroad."  
 It would not be difficult to name them, Joe, 3  but then I don't think I need to name them for a reporter of the Baltimore Sun. They know the special interests and support them all the time.   3  Joseph H. Short of the Baltimore Sun. 
 Oh yes, I agree with that. It depends altogether on what your viewpoint is. Special interests is one that is against the general public interest. It doesn't make any difference what sector of the population it's in.  .
 I think it was a wonderful thing. I am glad to hear about it. 4     4 On February 27 an Air Force B-50 bomber, the improved version of the wartime B-29, took off from Carswell Field, Fort Worth, Tex. with a crew of 15. It was refueled in flight four times by B-29 "tankers." It returned to its starting point in Texas on March 2 after having flown a total of 23,452 miles. The time of the flight was 94 hours, I minute.  
 It hasn't come up to me. That's the first I've heard of it.  
 I have no comment on it.  
 Not the slightest. That's purely a local political proposition. 
 I would advise you to pack if you are going to Key West next week. 
 I will tell you about that later.  I will let you know in plenty of time so that you can take enough clothes with you.  
 Sure. 
 Not necessarily. You have to have bases to do the filling up.  
 Mr. Johnson is in agreement with me.  
 I have no comment on a statement made by traitors.  
 Not that I know of. It hasn't come up to me.  
 Yes, you may. 
 The question was whether I had any comment to make on what had been said by the Communist leaders of this country as to what they would do in case of attack by Russia, and I said I had no comment to make on such statements by traitors.  
 No comment.  
 I don't think it will. I think the filibuster will run its course, and the program will go through as it is anticipated. 5     5 The filibuster concerned an attempt to change the Senate's Rule XXII relating to closure.  
 I hadn't heard about it, but he would be perfectly welcome if he chose to pay us a visit.  
 I cannot say anything about it. I know of no such program. 
 Well, I don't know whether it would or not. I am not on the jury.  
 I said that the filibuster would eventually run its course, and the program would go through as anticipated. I have been in many a filibuster myself. I never helped to carry on one, I always tried to break them. 
 I favor the majority rule, not necessarily constitutional. 
 Simple majority, that's right. That's what I always voted for while I was in the Senate, if you want to look up the record. 
 That's right. This is the same rule that applies to a motion, and that now applies to the measure itself; and that is, I think, what was intended when the rule was passed in 1917. But that is now for the Senate itself to decide. I can't tell them what to do. 
 Yes I would, if I had anything to do with it.  
 Yes.  
 I think it's a very good report, so far as I have been able to follow it, but I haven't had a chance to study it carefully. As soon as I have a chance to study it, I will send up the necessary reorganization plans, as soon as I get the authority to implement as much of it as we can. 
 I am talking about the report as a whole--the whole thing. 
 Well, I will attend to that when we get around to it. When we get ready to answer that question, you will know exactly where I stand. 
 I will let you know about that when I send my information to the Congress, which will be in a few days.  
 He is going to stay. 
 All three of them are going to stay.  
 It will not be released. It's locked up in my safe and will stay there. It's a confidential report and should not be released.  
 Oh, just a general look into the Ohio situation, and he told me what he thought about it, and I was very happy to have him do that. I have no comment to make on it. Ohio went Democratic the last time.  
 We did not discuss that.  
 Senator Mead came to pay me a courtesy call. We had a very pleasant visit going over old times together.  6 Former Senator James M. Mead of New York. 
 No. We went over old jobs in the past, but no new ones. 
 No new ones. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and seventy-first news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, March 3, 1949. 
