 I have no announcements to make. If you have questions, I will answer them.  \. I'm still looking. \. I'll answer it when I get the information. 1  1 See Item 188 . \. That's up to the Senate.  \. I have no comment on that. That is a little bit outside my sphere. That is between Mundt and the Dixiecrats.  \. I think I made that perfectly clear in the statement that I released. If you will read that carefully, you will find that that ground is fully covered. 2    2  See Item 176. \. The statement speaks for itself, and if you read it carefully you wouldn't have to ask me questions like that, because it's answered in the statement.  \. Just as quickly as I can get it done. \. No, I haven't, but there will be plenty of them.  \. I am very fond of the good Baptist preacher. Of course, when it comes to electing Democrats and Republicans, I always have to be for the Democrat.  \. I like the last word, they have never done that yet.   \. Go ahead--go ahead--ask them. \. I think General Eisenhower is doing a magnificent job in Europe, and I hope he continues to do that job. And I think he will. \. What's that? \. Yes.\. I can repeat it for you. I think the question that he asked me was if I had any comment on what Mr. Baruch said when he returned from Europe, which was that General Eisenhower was doing a most magnificent job since Peter the Hermit; and he asked me if I thought General Eisenhower would continue to do that job, and I said I thought he would, as long as it was necessary. \. I have no comment on that.  \. Yes--go ahead. \. I have appointed judges for Illinois, and that is as far as I intend to go on it. 5  5 See Item 165 .  \. Well, I expect to go to San Francisco on the 4th of September, to address the United Nations Japanese Peace Conference. \. I expect to fly--I expect to fly. \. That's probably right. \. I am going out there for the purpose of opening the conference-- \. I am going out to open the conference. We have a delegation there that will do the signing. \. It does, at this particular time.  \. I am trying to find the facts, just as I do in every case. \. No. I will answer the question when I know the facts.  \. I am very sorry that Senator Connally took that position.  6 On July 30 Senator Tom Connally of Texas, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, opposed plans of the Economic Cooperation Administration to extend U.S. economic aid to Asia.  \. No, I did not. \. No, I did not. 7  7 John J. Nangle, Democratic national committee-man from Missouri, and Judge James P. McGranery, United States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania. \. This young man has been on his feet for a long time, Eddie. 8  Let's give him a chance and then I will recognize you.  8  Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post.  \. The United States delegation at Geneva has instructions to discuss land reforms in those areas. Eddie, what was your question ?  \. Well now, Eddie, your guess is as good as mine. If you are referring to possibilities in 1952, I don't think those duties will interfere with that, if the General is in that frame of mind. \. I beg your pardon?\. No, you can't quote it. Use it just like you would every other question. \. Well, Eddie asked me if I thought Eisenhower's duties would be prolonged, and I said that I didn't think it would interfere with things that might happen in 1952, if General Eisenhower happened to be in that frame of mind. \. But I think General Eisenhower, under any conditions, would put duty to the country first.   THE PRESIDENT. Well, gentlemen ?   \. No. I think one presidential election is enough. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right. Note: President Truman's two hundred and seventy-third news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, August 2, 1951. 
