 Please be seated.  I have no special announcements to make today. I will listen to questions and try to answer them.  
 He is going to have lunch with me tomorrow.   1  Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion of Israel. 
 That's all the comment I have to make. I will carry on the conversations with him, and not in the press.  
 No, I don't know--only what I have seen in the papers-- 
 --but go ahead. 
 Don't you think you had better wait until the evidence is all in, before you come to a conclusion on such things as that? There are plenty of things that will come up on this line on which you ought to wait until you have all the facts, before you come to a conclusion. I can't answer the question. 
 What do you think?   
 I still have confidence in Ambassador O'Dwyer.   2  William O'Dwyer, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico and former Mayor of New York City. 
 I don't know what the average American thinks, but I don't think that a man can be tried in public and convicted without knowing all the evidence. 
 Oh--oh--I didn't think about that! Too many of them--that's right.  
 Did you hear my answer to the gentleman over here? That's the same answer.  
 The what? 
 I can't answer that became I don't know.   What's the matter with you boys?   
 Well, when the facts are all known, there will be but one answer, and I have given that answer already. 
 Well, I say, if you will just wait until all the evidence is in, you can then draw your own contusions, and I think they will be the correct ones. 
 I do not. There was nobody present there but the general and myself. It was a purely personal conference, and there was no record kept of it whatever, although I know what took place there. I do not intend to comment on it.   3  On May 2 the Senate Armed Services and Foreign Relations Committees released the administration's documents on the Wake Island conference preliminary to their hearings, beginning May 3, on the dismissal of General MacArthur. See also Item 90 . 
 No,  
 Well now, you are making a lot of implications that are founded absolutely on false premises.  There is not a word of truth in anything you have asked me. When this St. Lawrence Seaway came up, I called the Committee itself in toto--every member of it--down, and had it thoroughly and completely explained to them by everybody who knew what the implications of the St. Lawrence Seaway are. After that conference the Committee was in favor of the St. Lawrence Seaway and that included the Chairman. Ed Flynn never said a word to me about the St. Lawrence Seaway. In fact, I think he may be against it. I have never talked to him about it. 
 I did. 
 It was put up to me and I approved it.  
 No, I was not. 
 He is entitled to that opinion--he is entitled to any opinion he chooses. 
 -- which he didn't have because he wouldn't let the Central Intelligence Agency work in Japan until just recently. 
 No, I have no opinion to express. My opinions have been in action. 
 I don't know. You will have to ask him. He'll answer you, I expect. 
 I didn't know that. The CIA usually reports to me. If they made any such report to him, they didn't make it to me. 
 They make a report to me every day, so they must have made a report to me on November 21, but I don't know what was in it. That has been quite a while ago. 
 If it's a secret document, I don't know how you found out about it. 
 I don't remember the exact date. If you will talk to Gen. Bedell Smith,  6  he can tell you.   6  Gen. Walter Bedell Smith, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
 What ? 
 He's the right kind of an intelligence man, isn't he!  
 Well, I won't do that, but I am telling you the truth and the facts. 
 I don't need to be checked up on it, but go ahead. 
 I don't know. I will have to look it up. I say I get those reports every day and they are that thick . I read them every day, too, but I can't tell you the exact date or what was in any special report, without going back and looking it up. 
 I understand. 
 I can't answer that, without looking it up. 
 All right. Go ahead. 
 I think everybody was not exactly surprised; they were sorry to see it happen. 
 He was very much surprised.  
 General Smith--General Smith. 
 He wanted to know who persuaded General MacArthur to let CIA intelligence get into his office, and I said General Smith did that. He made a trip over there for the purpose. 
 That is a matter of record and will probably be answered in the Committee by the Chiefs of Staff themselves. That is the best place to get it. 
 That is correct. 
 That is correct. 
 I don't remember the date. It can be looked up. I will have Joe Short   7   look it up and give it to you.   7  Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President. 
 I can't answer that, because I don't know. 
 I am expressing no opinion at the present time. I will give you my opinion when the time is right for it. 
 I think he made only one trip. I don't know the date. I can't confirm that date. 
 That is for you to guess at. I can't tell you. 
 I don't know what effect it had on the other members of the conference, but he persuaded me that they would not come in. 
 That is a matter of tactics in the field, and is the responsibility of the field commander. I never interfere with the field commanders in any of their maneuvers.  
 You are correct. 
 What's the matter?  
 Now, Duke,  8  what do you want to ask a loaded question like that for?  You know I am not going to answer that. I don't look for any such procedure. He's a fighter, just like I am.   8  Duke Shoop of the Kansas City Star.  
 No comment--I can't answer that question. 
 Not that I know of. All I have seen about opinions like that have been in the press, and I like to have them from the source before I comment on them. 
 Not a thing.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. Note: President Truman's two hundred and sixty-second news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 3, 1951. 
