 I have one announcement to make. Tony, 1  I will make it slowly, so that you can get it down.  1 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 He lives now in Virginia. Came from Brooklyn originally, I think. 
 Yes, I imagine so.  
 No, I can't. 
 It is relatively unimportant. You see, it has been a habit of mine to hold conferences in the White House and in the Blair House on various subjects that affect the welfare of the country, and that has been going on for 4 years. And these conferences are on my personal invitation. This is the first occasion on which one of the persons who has been invited has leaked the fact to people that he was coming to the White House to see the President. I didn't like it, and I still don't like it. 
 I shall continue to have those conferences whenever I feel like it, and they will continue to be off the record. 
 That is absolutely true. That is absolutely true. And eventually the facts will come out, and you will find it is nothing to be alarmed about, and that there is no deep, dark secret in connection with it. Just merely the President having a conference of some of his top advisers on a subject in which he was interested. 
 No deep, dark secret. 
 I have no comment to make on it. That is as far as I am going. I just won't answer any questions about it at all. 
 I'll just "no comment" them all. 
 Yes, that's right. All subjects are important when the President calls a conference on them, but the meeting was relatively unimportant. 2   2 In the President's news conference held on July 14, a question had been raised concerning whether or not a meeting was scheduled to be held that evening at the Blair House. At that time the President gave only guarded confirmation of the report.  According to newspaper reports made on July 15, the information that a meeting was to be held sometime during the evening of the 14th at the Blair House became known during that afternoon. The source of the information was not identified.  Senator Millard Tydings of Maryland, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was reported to have left the meeting early and to have been asked whether the question of Russia and the atomic bomb had been dealt with. The Senator was quoted as having replied "I wouldn't think  At his news conference held on July 28 the President read a statement regarding the meeting held on the evening of the 14th .  
 That's right. 
 No. 
 No. I sent a message down, that's all the information I have to give them at the present time.  
 No, but I intend to ask the Congress again to make an appropriation for the sesquicentennial. They should make the appropriation, and I hope they will. 
 Whatever it was they asked for. I think it was $3 million. I sent down a request for whatever the amount was. I believe it was $3 million.  
 I have in the beginning told the War Assets Administration, and the Maritime Administration, and the military, always to be very careful in the letting of contracts, and to be sure that every contract is properly investigated. That was my business in the Senate, to make that sort of investigation, and there were no particular instructions given to anybody that have not been in force right along. 
 It has been customary. 
 Go ahead. 
 No, I have not. It hasn't been necessary. 3   3 Senator Clyde R. Hoey of North Carolina, Chairman, Senate Investigations Subcommittee of the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Departments. The subcommittee hearings, entitled "Influence in Government Procurement," were published by the Government Printing Office . 
 I have been reading all the stories I saw in the papers, but I don't believe them. 
 I don't know anything about it. I think you fellows would know all about it. That is your business, to find out about those things. 
 How? How do you get checkmated, Miss May? 4  I never checkmate you.  4 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 I give you all the information. 
 I give you the information I can. There is no secrecy around the Blair House, Miss May, at all. I live there. It's my private residence. 
 Are there any secrets around your house where you live?  
 Certainly. Certainly he will. 
 Let the lady ask her question.  
 I knew nothing about it. I saw in yesterday's paper where Mr. Acheson said they were temporarily suspended. That's all I know about it. 
 No, I think the negotiations probably were stymied, and they will be renewed at the proper time. It was not discussed with me.  
 If I understand correctly, Mr. Wherry has a lot of ungrounded fears, in which I am not interested. 
 Ungrounded fears about the treaty.  
 As soon as it is ready.  
 No comment. It seems to be the policy of the Judiciary Committee to hold up any appointments I send down there, so that's nothing new. 
 No, not yet.  
 As quickly as I can make the announcement I will make it. I don't know whether that will be swiftly or whether it will be quickly. That depends altogether on the point of view. 
 Oh yes, I have a pile of recommendations. Plenty of recommendations. Every Federal judge in the United States would like to be on the Supreme Court. I imagine most of them are qualified. 5   5 See Item 189. 
 I have no comment on that.  
 Oh yes. As soon as we can get around to it. I think there is no doubt but what they will ratify the trade treaty.  
 I didn't understand the question? 
 Well, they are working on it right now, and comment has all been favorable. The Secretary of Commerce is making an on-the-spot investigation. The Labor Department through Mr. Tobin is supplying the statistics, and Dr. Steelman is coordinating all the parts of the Government that can be of help in the program; and we are making some progress.  
 No comment. I have no comment. That's like the Blair House meeting.  What was the question back there?  
 No Comment. I told you I wouldn't answer questions about the Blair House meeting, or anything in connection with it, or any rumors in connection with it. 
 I didn't have a second one. 
 I will attend to that when it comes around. 
 Yes Ma'am, I do.  
 No comment. No comment.  
 Just be patient until all the rumors are floored, then you will have the answer to that question. 
 No, I don't intend to discuss it.  
 I am afraid my candidate wouldn't be considered.   Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and ninetieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, July 21, 1 949. 
