 I have no special announcements to make. I will try to answer questions.  
 I think the Democrats would like to have all the votes they can get. I don't care about driving anybody out of the Democratic Party.  
 Whenever the Congress would like to see them, of course they are all available; and this isn't any precedent that has been set, I think this is the third time it has been done.  1 On May 31 Secretary of State Dean Acheson appeared before approximately 250 Members of the Senate and House of Representatives at an informal session in Coolidge Auditorium in the Library of Congress. The Secretary's address was followed by a question and answer period.  
 Well, that is up to the Cabinet officer himself whether he wants to be questioned or not. He doesn't have to be questioned if he doesn't want to be.  
 No, that is a departmental affair.  2 William W. Remington resigned from his position as an economist in the Department of Commerce on June 9, 1950. Secretary of Commerce Charles Sawyer requested the resignation on May 27.  In 1948 the Department had suspended Mr. Remington after Elizabeth Bentley testified before the House Committee on Un-American Activities that he had Communist affiliations. In February 1949 he was cleared by the President's Loyalty Review Board and reinstated in the Department. He was indicted on June 8, 1950, by a New York grand jury on a charge that he had lied in denying he had ever been a member of the Communist Party. 
 No comment.  
 It's all right.
 I hope the Congress will extend it. 
 I hope the Congress will extend it. 
 The Chilean President himself discussed it with me. 
 All right, Eddies 3 --go ahead.  3 Edward T. Folliard of the Washington post. 
 I don't agree with that at all. I am doing everything I possibly can to prevent any war of any kind and to make the United Nations operate for a permanent peace in the world. I think we are closer to that now than we have been in the last 5 years.  
 That's the idea, yes. The authority of the President to waive the tax is what I would like to see extended.  
 I do. I thought I made that perfectly plain on that nonpolitical trip across the country.  5 Senator Smith's remarks were made on the floor of the Senate before she read what she called a "Declaration of Conscience" issued by herself and six other Senators. The declaration was critical of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin.  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, June 1, 1950. 
