  The members of the Philippine War Damage Commission are: Frank A. Waring of California, John S. Young of New York, and Francisco A. Delgrado  of the Philippine Islands.   And I think I had better read you a statement on the draft bill, copies of which will be available for you when you go out.  "As I have already said, the Draft Extension Act is bad legislation. I signed it reluctantly, 1  and only because of my conviction that conditions would be worse without it. The act at least has the merit of keeping intact the draft machinery and of preserving for the time being the reemployment rights of veterans.  1 On May 14 the President approved a bill extending the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, as amended, until July 1, 1946 . On June 29 he approved a bill further extending the act .  "It is to be hoped that before July 1st, when the present extension expires, the Congress will extend Selective Service for a year in a form that will meet the Nation's requirements.  "General Hershey informs me that the exemption of 18- and 19-year-old registrants will reduce the number of men who can be inducted into the Armed Forces each month, in the age group under 26, from approximately 35,000 to approximately 5,000. Eighty thousand physically and mentally acceptable 18- and 19-year-old high school students whose inductions had been postponed are now lost to the Armed Forces.  "It will be noted that Congress has restricted inductions, except of volunteers, to the age group who become 20 or who were between 20 and 30 at the time fixed for their registration. Seemingly, it was the intent of Congress to include only those who are now under 30, but the clear words of the law include as liable all men born on or subsequent to October 17, 1910, who have reached the age of 20. Thus, men up to 35 years, 7 months of age could be drafted. I cite this fact just to illustrate how loosely drawn is this law. As another example, there is nothing in the law to prohibit the reinduction of men of eligible age who have already had their war service and been discharged.  "Of course, there is no intention to draft men up to the age of 35 years, 7 months. The War Department does not want men over 30, and men over that age will not be reclassified.  "I am, however, authorizing the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy to call upon the Director of Selective Service for the induction of men who become 20 and who will not have reached the age of 30 on the date of their induction. Under present regulations, the top limit is 26. We must save what we can from the near wreckage of the Selective Service System."  Copies of that will be available for you when you go out.  I have here some reorganization plans--three reorganization plans--which I have sent down to the Congress this afternoon. All detailed and set out in short form--which will be handed to you.  The first reorganization plan confirms the transfer to the Department of State of the Office of Inter-American Affairs, already made by Executive order of the 10th of April.  The Office of the United States High Commissioner of the Philippines is abolished-its affairs to be liquidated by the Department of State, because the Philippines become independent July 4th.  Treasury Department--confirms the transfer by the Executive order of 1943, from Justice to the Treasury, of certain minor functions.  Then the Department of Agriculture functions of eight research bureau agencies, consolidated by an Executive order of 1942 in Agricultural Research, are transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture.  The Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion, Contract Settlement, is transferred to OWMR and abolished.  National Housing Agency--consolidated permanently in one agency the main housing activities of the Government. Lack of permanent status has handicapped NHA operations-fully recognize that the Wagner-Ellender-Taft bill, S.1592, approved by the Senate in April, and now pending in the House, provides, among other things, for a Permanent housing organization along the same line. This reorganization follows along the Wagner-Ellender-Taft bill.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-makes permanent transfer to FDIC, by Executive order of 1942.  Then the second reorganization plan follows along the same lines, as does the third one.  All these reorganization plan things will be available for you after the press conference, as many as want them.  These are all the announcements I have to make. 
 That's correct. That's correct. 
 That's correct. It will have to be done, if we are 
 --20--18 to 26--
 Before the law--
 Under the extension, the way it is now, we wouldn't get anybody, to speak of. So we have got to arrange someway to get men to fill the necessary requirements of the War and Navy Departments. 
 I do not. We haven't had time to make a survey.  
 No. We are still working on that. I have nothing to say about that at this time. Still working on it. 
 I have no comment to make at all. That's the first I've heard of it. 
 Not at the present time. He is Secretary of State. 
 Certainly. 
 I have no comment. 
 I have no comment to make. 
 I have no comment to make on that. I will consider everybody that has been presented to me, or talked about.  
 I have no views on it at all. I will not express an opinion on it until it is before me for consideration, because you don't know what developments in the Senate are likely to be. 
 No comment.  
 I am not.  
 I have no comment to make on that. I have been in touch with him, but I do not want to comment on it at the present time. 
 No comment. I'll wait until I hear from General Marshall, then I will comment on it. 
 As long as it's necessary, and as long as there's any possibility of a job being done. 
 I don't think that is true at all.  
 Yes. It has been in the works ever since the 18th of August last year. 
 No, I cannot. Still working on it. I have no comment to make on that. I have to have action from down the street before I can arrive at a real program.  
 Yes, I have. 
 I hope so.
 One at a time, please.  
 Whenever it comes to me. 
 Not yet.  
 Francisco A. Delgado-D-e-l-g-a-d-o. I think I put an "r" in when I read it.  
 I think I have made that very, very plain on various occasions. I don't see any reason for further comment on it.  
 Why certainly. That is why we have the Combined Food Board. That is why we have all these people traveling around trying to work the thing out. And I think if you will be just a little patient we will give you a little more information a little later, so that conditions are not as bad from the point of view of the United States as they have been painted. The United States is doing all it possibly can in this emergency, and more than any other country that is doing it, I will say that.  
 I will comment on it further after my next interview. I said all I had to say this morning.  
 I have.
 They didn't report to me this morning. They were not to report to me until tomorrow. 
 They didn't report to me. 
 No.
 I appointed him temporary Chairman this morning. 
 Admiral Mills' name has never been sent to the Senate, and won't be, on account of the controversy which the Commerce Committee got into over Admiral Mills. I sent down Admiral Smith in place of Admiral Mills.  
 I don't favor removing the ceilings on any products as long as they are short.  
 Nothing is holding it up. 
 Nothing is holding it up at all. It's under discussion. The United Nations committee--commission--whatever you want to call it--is going to meet on the 20th of June for further discussion, and see if they can arrive at a program.  
 That's right. That still stands. 
 Certainly. 
 I have no comment to make. That's the first I've heard of it.  
 I will cross that bridge-as I told you the other day--when I come to it. 1    1  on May 21 the President issued Executive Order 9728 "Authorizing the Secretary of the Interior To Take Possession of and To Operate Certain Coal Mines" . 
 Wait a minute--let's see-this fellow started back there. What was it you wanted to ask?  
 Mr. Byrnes, when he arrives, will make the comment on the Paris peace conference.  
 I have no further comment to make, except what was in the statement this morning.  
 Well, Bowles was in to see me on regular business, which he has a right to do every day, if he likes. 
 We discussed the usual things that we talk about when I talk to Mr. Bowles. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's sixty-fifth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 16, 1946. 
