 I have no special announcements to make, so fire away with your questions when you are ready.  
 I have no comment to make on it.  1 On June 28 in an address at commencement exercises commemorating the 25th anniversary of the formation of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces in Washington, D.C., Bernard M. Baruch charged that the plans for the Nation's mobilization were being obstructed.  The full text of the address is published in the Appendix to the Congressional Record . Further statements by Mr. Baruch, made on October 3, concerning the need for a mobilization plan are published in the Appendix to the Congressional Record . 
 I have no comment to make on it. 
 No. 
 No, 
 No comment. There is no need to prolong the conversation at all. Mr. Baruch was misinformed, that's all there is to it. The thing was amply answered by Charlie Ross. 2   2  On June 29, Charles Ross, Secretary to the President, speaking as an unidentified White House source, stated that Mr. Baruch was "pretty badly informed" in his charge that President Truman had stopped an industrial mobilization plan prepared by the National Security Resources Board.  Mr. Ross stated that in the first place no such plan as described by Mr. Baruch had ever been presented to the Board. So the President, in turn, he said, could not have rejected a plan submitted to him by the Board.  Mr. Ross told the press that it would be shocking to think that the Government was doing no industrial mobilization planning as Mr. Baruch asserted, and stated that planning continued constantly. "Any Government would be derelict in its duty if it did not plan against eventualities," he added.  
 I didn't catch the question? 
 I do hope for it, yes. That's what I was talking to Senator McGruth about yesterday. 
 He assured me that there would be a bill reported to the Senate.  
 No. I will make the announcement.  
 I will answer that question when the bill comes before me. I can't answer now. 
 Well, I have never undertaken to defeat Taft, so you have got your question based on a wrong premise. But the labor bill as it appears before me will be analyzed and either signed or vetoed, and I will attend to that when it comes up here. 
 No, I don't agree with them. The fight is going to continue just as hard as I can make it, to carry out the Democratic platform. 
 I do not want to answer questions like that. 
 I have no comment to make.  
 I know nothing about it. That is completely outside my purview. 
 I know how it's operated, but it isn't under my direction, and I have no comment to make.  
 I have always made it perfectly clear that a businessman doesn't have to hire a go-between to get Government contracts. That has always been my stand. I made that perfectly clear, when I was running that Senate thing, to everybody who talked to me about it.  
 No, it does not.  
 Entirely without foundation in fact.  
 Not that I know of. 
 Unless he decides to come, and if the announcement is officially made. He is in the Philippines, not here. I know nothing about his intention.  
 No comment.  3 On June 18, 1949, former Secretary of State James F. Byrnes was the principal speaker at exercises ending the university's year-long observance of its 200th anniversary. In his address Mr. Byrnes stated that some of the suggested new Federal programs "point inevitably to a welfare state."  He declared, "We are going down the road to statism. Where we will wind up no one can tell. But if some of the new programs seriously proposed should be adopted, there is danger that the individual-whether farmer, worker, manufacturer, lawyer, or doctor--will soon be an economic slave pulling an oar in the galley of the state."  The full text of the address is published in the Congressional Record . 
 Draw your own conclusions. 
 He wanted to know if there was any connection between Byrnes's attack and Baruch's. I said I thought he could draw his own conclusions.  
 I can answer that question very well as I did the other day. Remember the cartoon that was in the Washington Star last night, with the dear old Congress hitting itself on the head with a hammer and asking me please to have him stop that?  That cartoon answers that.  4 In May and June 1949 several resolutions were introduced in Congress proposing that the President be directed to reduce appropriations 5 to 10 percent after they had been approved by the Congress.  
 I don't know what the Barden bill is. I am after a bill on aid to education, and I am not writing the bill. 
 I discussed aid to education with Mr. Barden and I urged him to get a bill out so that the House could vote on it. That is as far as the conversation went.  
 J can't answer that question now. It is under consideration.  
 No comment.  5 An incident involving interracial disturbances at a municipal swimming pool in Washington.  
 No comment. I don't know anything about it. 
 I don't know anything about it.  
 No, I can't comment on it.  6 On June 24 Paul G. Hoffman, Economic Cooperation Administrator, testified before the Senate Appropriations Committee. In his testimony in support of a $4 billion appropriation for the ECA in fiscal year 1950, Mr. Hoffman said that unless the United States increased its purchases from Marshall plan countries, their dollar earnings would be inadequate for a self-sustaining economy. He placed the minimum increase needed at $1,500 million a year.  
 No. No official report. 
 I can't give it to you. I don't give out unofficial reports. 
 No, I can't give you a guess. 
 I would advise you to read the veto messages that--to the tax bill--I wrote three of them. If you will read any one of those through thoroughly, you will find out just exactly what I think on the subject.  
 I have not.  
 No, That wasn't even mentioned.  7 Columbia Valley Administration.  
 Not at all. Not at all. The Governor of Hawaii and the Secretary of the Interior were in to see me this morning, and the fact-finding commission has made a report on the strike situation in Hawaii, and I sincerely hope that that recommendation will be adopted and that the strike will cease. If they have been laboring under a delusion that maybe the President might take a hand in that situation, under present conditions the President has no power to take a hand in it at all.  
 What's that? 
 No, he hasn't. When I get ready to make the announcement, I will tell you flatly who it is going to be. You won't have to guess.  
 We did not.  
 When I get ready to issue that--that report on that conclusion will be answered. I can't answer it now. 
 No comment.  8 A statement by the Department of State commenting on the provisions of the Argentine-United Kingdom trade and payments agreement is printed in the Department of State Bulletin . It was released to the press on June 27.  What was that question you tried to ask? We got interrupted.  
 I can't comment on that, because I don't know anything about what it is. 
 I will answer that question when it comes to me. I can't answer now.  
 I don't want to speak for Mr. Green. I think he spoke very plainly for himself. I am making no comment on it.  9 On June 29 William Green, president of the American Federation of Labor, issued a public statement in which he said, "The Dixiecrats who voted against labor yesterday and thereby repudiated the Democratic Party's platform pledges and repudiated the campaign pledges of the Democratic Party's leader, President Truman, must be regarded as outright enemies of labor." A letter, dated June 29, from Mr. Green to Scott W. Lucas, Senate majority leader, regarding the situation is printed in the Congressional Record .  
 Say that again. I didn't get it. 
 I don't think Senator George has ever been for sufficient taxes to run the Government, so that is not unusual.  
 Yes, I have read it, but there is no comment.  
 I do not. I certainly do not.  
 Yes, I hope so. 
 I will announce them as soon as they are ready.  
 I have suggested that they ask Congress for permission to ask the RFC for a loan. Reporter: Well, thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right. Note: President Truman's one hundred and eightyseventh news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, June 30, 1949. 
