 I have no announcements to make. I will try to answer questions, however.  \. Didn't know about it. Hasn't got to me yet.  1 The veto was later sustained by the Senate. See Item 105. \. I will have to investigate it, and see on what basis they did it, before I can comment on it.  \. Yes. Secretary Acheson, at the conference which I called on the subject, the first time, advised caution. After the whole thing was thoroughly discussed between the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Acheson, General Bradley, and Mr. Harriman, they all came to the conclusion that the action had to be taken. I had made up my mind before I had consulted them, but I wanted to hear what they had to say. \. My mind was made up at the time of the ultimatum to the Chinese Communist commander.  2 The letter, dated March 20, 1951, was sent by Gen. Douglas MacArthur to Representative Joseph W. Martin, Jr., of Massachusetts. It stated, in part, that "if we lose the war to communism in Asia the fall of Europe is inevitable, win it and Europe most probably would avoid war and yet preserve freedom. As you point out, we must win. There is no substitute for victory." The full text of the letter is printed in the Congressional Record . \. Yes. \. I said my mind was made up when the ultimatum was sent by General MacArthur to the Chinese commander. \. Yes--April 6th. \. On Friday--Friday morning. \. Yes. \. That I needed a new general in the Far East. \. I think that was pretty thoroughly explained by General Marshall in his testimony. He stated the facts. \. April 6th. \. March 24th, yes. It was March 20. March do, wasn't it?\. It was before the Martin letter. Mr. Short: We will look it up, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. Joe says he will look it up, the exact date. 3  3 General MacArthur's statement on Korea, dated March 24, 1951, said in part, "The enemy therefore must by now be painfully aware that a decision of the United Nations to depart from its tolerant effort to contain the war to the area of Korea through expansion of our military operations to his coastal areas and interior bases would doom Red China to the risk of imminent military collapse.  "These basic facts being established, there should be no insuperable difficulty arriving at decisions on the Korean problem if the issues are resolved on their own merits without being burdened by extraneous matters not directly related to Korea, such as Formosa and China's seat in the United Nations."  The text of the statement was released by the White House on April 11, 1951, at the same time that General MacArthur was relieved of his Far East command. See also Item 77.  With respect to the use of the word "ultimatum" in connection with the March 24 statement, see Memoirs by Harry S. Truman, volume 2, page 442. \. That is just what I mean. That Martin letter just added fuel to the fire, which had been going on for about a year. I made a 14,400 mile trip on my own steam, in order to talk to him and try to get an understanding. And I thought I had it; as I told you gentlemen when I came back here.  \. They are not very good right at this minute. \. The Bureau of the Budget has the thing under advisement, as has the Secretary of the Interior; and they are going to discuss the matter further with me.  \. No. \. I had been carefully studying the situation over, and reviewing the facts for the past year. I hadn't discussed it with anybody. \. Yes, go ahead. \. That is correct.  4  See Item 77. \. That is correct--that is absolutely correct. \. Yes. On several occasions, particularly one in that--the incident of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, in August. 5  5 See 1950 volume, this series, Item 226.  I didn't want to relieve him. I sent a message to Congress as soon as World War II ceased, and asked the Congress to make all five-star generals and five-star admirals, admirals of the fleet and generals of the army for life, on full pay and emoluments with a secretary and an orderly, for the rest of their lives. And naturally, I didn't want to do anything that would in any way injure the standing of those admirals and generals, for I think the country is exceedingly grateful, and still is grateful, for the war effort which those generals put forth in World War II; and that includes General MacArthur. My ideas on that haven't changed a bit. This is a different situation and a different program. What is it ? \. No, I can't. No further comment on that. \. They did exactly right, and I am happy that they did. \. Who is making those charges? The Republicans that are trying to overthrow the foreign policy of the United States? I don't think anybody who understands the Government of the United States is making any such charges. \. All the information in connection with the thing is taken by the actions and the decisions which I make. The conversations with my advisers and my private staff before decisions are made is my business and mine alone. \. He made the cautionary suggestion at the April the 6th meeting. When all the facts were on the table, there was no objection on Acheson's part at all. \. No, because there were three or four meetings. \. I didn't ask anybody to declare himself at that meeting. I stated the case and advised them to have a meeting on Saturday afternoon; and they had one Saturday afternoon, and one on Sunday. And I had another meeting with them on Monday. It was not hurriedly done. It was very carefully considered. \. Yes. \. The thing that was hurried up was the message, not the act. \. Well, I don't want you to get it mixed up. It was reported that there had been a leak. Therefore, the message was sent directly to the General. \. Political. Purely. Said it would stir up the fuss that it did. And he was right.   \. My theory is that the Council ought to remain just as it has.  \. Well, I think the letter that I sent to the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee with the supporting documents covers the whole thing. 6  I haven't anything further to say on it.  6  See Item 104 \. I haven't heard from them yet.  \. Sure. \. I hope to be able to go, but I won't know how conditions here will be; and I won't know until just shortly before the meeting takes place, which is on June the 9th, I think.  \. I can't comment on that now.  \. I am trying to find one. I haven't one in mind right now. As soon as I find him, I will tell you who he is.  7 James P. Pope, member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.  \. I have that under consideration. He has not resigned as yet, but he has told me that he thinks he will probably want to enter politics in the great State of Washington next year, and he wants to come home and get himself ready.  8 Mon C. Wallgren, Chairman, Federal Power Commission, and former Governor of the State of Washington.  \. Well, nearly every President has had the same experience. You can just pick up the life of any President you choose, and you will find experiences just like this in the lives of nearly every one of them. \. Well, I don't recall any specific instances. Grover Cleveland had the same trouble, so did Abraham Lincoln. And Andrew Jackson was quite active in that line. Andrew Johnson, I think, had the worst experience of any of them, but if you go on down the line you will find that nearly every President has had the same experience. It is nothing new.  \. Read the speech I made this morning at the Statler Hotel. 9  That will answer your question.  9  See Item 107.  \. Go ahead. \. I certainly do, because a thing of that kind should have been submitted to the Joint Chiefs of Staff before it was done. \. My suggestion to you is to read General Marshall's testimony 10 --  10  See Item 101 . \.--on the subject.\. That covers it thoroughly. \. That covers it thoroughly. \. I didn't say that. I didn't say that. I said it covers it thoroughly.  \. Well now, you will have to ask Mon. They are both open. He can run for either one. \. He has done both, that's right.  Merriman Smith : Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. It's all right, Smitty. Note: President Truman's two hundred and sixty-fourth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 17, 1951. 
