 Please be seated.  I have no particular announcements to make, but I will try to answer questions.  
 The reorganization plans were right and should have been passed-should have been allowed to stand, let's put it that way.   1  Reorganization Plans 2, 3, and 4 of 1952 were disapproved by the Senate on June 18. See Items 84-87.  
 No, sir, I do not. If they could have been reduced that much, I would have reduced them. The facts in the case are they ought to be increased to meet the deficit. And I am not running for office.  
 I'm not running for office, I can tell you the facts.  
 That's correct. 
 I wouldn't think so. As a delegate to the Chicago convention I have a right to a preference. 
 I do not intend to express anything about it until the convention meets, and probably not until the President is nominated.  That's my business, however, and I will do as I please on it. 
 Say that again?   2  Jean Letourneau, Minister of the Associated States in the french Government. 
 He came in and paid his respects to the President of the United States, and we discussed Indochina and the situation, and that's all there was to it. I have no comment to make on it.  
 Couldn't be anything else.    3  On June 18, Averell Harriman defeated Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee in the District of Columbia primary in the contest for the Democratic Presidential nomination.  
 No, I do not, unless he wants to put the country further in the hole than it is.  
 That is a mistake on my part. I dictated that letter and I said Quebec. It should have been Ontario. That matter about which you speak is a matter for the Federal Power Commission to pass on, and the matter doesn't come to me until the Power Commission acts on it.   4  The text of the President's letter, dated June 17, follows:  Dear Dick:  I am sending you this memorandum hoping that you can do something to help the St. Lawrence seaway.  It will be one of the worst economic mistakes the country has ever made to allow that great project to go by default. If Canada constructs the waterway then no doubt some future administration will allow New York and Quebec to obtain all of the power. This is one of the worst things that could happen in the northeast section of the country.  I have had in mind a northeast power pool, a southeast power pool, which is almost completed, a southwest power pool and, of course, we have a great one in the northwest and one developing in the middle of the country, so that eventually we will have a power network that will give the country a balanced program fair to every section.  How any midwest or lake bordering State or New England could not see the necessity for this wonderful project is more than I can understand. If Canada builds the waterway, and they expect to build it, we will pay a toil on every ton of steel that comes from the iron deposits in Labrador. It has become necessary for us to import nearly all our iron from Labrador, Liberia, and Venezuela. This waterway would prevent our steel mills in the midwest from moving to the east coast. That situation happened to the textile mills of New England and I don't want to see it happen in the case of the midwest steel mills. Of course, the southern steel mills will be taken care of by the Venezuela ore deposits and are not in any danger from lack of future ores.  I hope you will consider this situation carefully. I think the best showing possible was made before the committee when the project was being considered.  Sincerely yours,  HARRY S. TRUMAN   
 I have made that statement to the Prime Minister of Canada when he came to see me on the subject. Of course we will support him in building the seaway.  
 I beg your pardon? 
 I rather think he needs no tutoring.   
 The note of urgency has been on all the time. That's the reason we call this an emergency. We are going through a situation in an endeavor to prevent a third world war--all-out, worldwide--and every effort that we have made has been to prevent that from taking place. We have made great progress in preventing it, and we can't let down now.  
 Yes, I read it.   5  The findings of Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas, based on the results of investigations by the Preparedness Subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee, are printed in the Congressional Record . 
 My reaction was that the action of the President of the United States was the correct one. I have no further comment to make on it.  
 The Army is in charge.     6  See Item 166 . 
 The Army is in charge.   
 What is it you want to ask, May?  7    7   Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.
 The matter is under consideration, May. No decision has been reached. 
 Not necessarily. The matter has been under consideration right along without reference to what the House or Senate does, because they can't tell me what to do. Taft-Hartley is a permissive piece of legislation to be used in peacetime. 
 We discussed everything that is before the Government today, including that. 
 It is becoming very serious. If you will read the morning papers, you will find that the ford Motor Company has cut down, and Chrysler expects to cut down. It will affect every industry in the United States if it continues. If that is not an emergency I never heard of one. 
 Yes, of course it is. 
 Every industry in the United States will be affected by the steel strike if it continues. It is a fundamental basic metal that is absolutely necessary to carry on our economy. I tried to make that perfectly plain time and again. Maybe I didn't. 
 No, they can't tell the Executive what to do. They pass laws, and if I approve them I try to carry them out. I didn't approve that one, by the way. 
 I have not had it under consideration at the present time. They are endeavoring now to get the defense production into operation. They have been holding conference after conference on that subject. I hope they will succeed.   8  For information on the previous meeting with industry and labor leaders, see Items 116, 118.  
 I can't speak for any candidate. I can speak only for myself. 
 I have no comment to make on that subject.  
 Yes, of course I do. 
 I am very fond of General Eisenhower, and he is entitled to his political views. It's all right with me. This is a free country. But I still like him as well as I ever did. 
 I can't say that--[laughter]--he is not running in the Democratic campaign.  
 Yes, and if you will read the message of 1948,  10  you will find just exactly what it ought to be. There hasn't been any change on my part.   9  See Item 169.   10  For the President's special message to Congress on civil rights, dated February 2, 1948, see 1948 volume, this series, Item 20.  
 That is correct. 
 No, no 
 --I do not. I am pretty hard to force when I don't want to do anything, and I am pretty hard to hold back when I do want to do it. 
 Well, I will be glad  
 Go on. 
 We used 99 days in the same manner, and Congress was thinking of the situation and had been fully informed on it time after time. The 80 days would just prolong the agony--wouldn't help matters one bit. 
 How do you know that? You don't know that. 
 Sure I am. 
 Yes. Yes, they would. They did. 
 My attitude on that is just the same, but the court ruled otherwise, and I agreed to abide by the court ruling, which I am doing. 
 Well, now, that is a political matter between General Eisenhower and the labor people, and I have no idea of interfering with what the General wants to do. He is--as I told you time and again--he is a free agent and a friend of mine.  
 That's a rumor, I understand you to say. I saw you promoted Maury to a general. He was a Congressman and never was a general. 
 Maury Maverick. 
 I thought you said general--so many generals flying back and forth here.  
 You said it for what it was--a rumor. 
 I said it was a rumor. 
 That's what you said.  You said it was a rumor, and I have no further comment to make on it.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. It's all right. Note: President Truman's three hundred and ninth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, June 19, 1952. 
