  Last week there was a misunderstanding about a certain appointment. I was talking about one thing and the question was about another. 1
 I say last week there was a misunderstanding about a man under consideration for a certain appointment. I thought the question was in regard to one initial organization and it was in regard to another.  I will clear that up this morning by announcing the appointment of Paul L. Styles to the National Labor Relations Board, to take the place of Mr. Gray.  That's all the announcements I have to make. 
 You should be at the Big Four 3  meetings every Monday morning. You would hear that we discuss it nearly every Monday morning.  2 Representative John Lesinski of Michigan, Chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor.   3 Albert Barkley, Vice President of the United States; Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House of Representatives; Scott W. Lucas, Senate Majority Leader; and John W. McCormack, Majority Floor Leader in the House of Representatives. 
 You have to have a special dispensation.  
 It is exactly a copy of the order that has been in effect all the time, and the only reason that order was issued was that it conform with the new Defense Act. There isn't any difference with this order and the one that has been in effect  4    4 Executive Order 10104 "Defining Certain Vital Military and Naval Installations and Equipment as Requiring Protection Against the General Dissemination of Information Relative Thereto" . The order superseded Executive Order 8381 of March 22, 1940 . 
 --that the order conform with the new law on the Defense Act. Unification--it's an order to conform with the Unification Act. That's all there is to it. That order has been in effect ever since I have been President. 
 I can't answer the question. You will have to talk to somebody that uses "Restricted." I don't use it.  
 You never saw one come out with my signature on it.  You talk to them, now. That's their business not mine. Those "Restricted" documents are mostly military.  
 Yes, I expect to see him about the 16th of February.  5 Of Missouri.  
 No, I won't try to interpret it for you--and that's final, and I don't intend to comment on it further. That order speaks for itself. You can put your own interpretation on it. 
 A picture of the North Pole marked "Restricted." I can't comment on that, though. Take it up with the Attorney General or the military which is responsible. 
 I am sorry about that. Since I have been President  
 No comment. 6    6 On January 17 the U.S.S. Missouri, the only active battleship in the United States fleet, ran aground in the Chesapeake Bay near Thimble Shoal Light. The mishap occurred at the start of a routine training cruise to Guantanamo, Cuba. The ship was retorted on February 1.  
 I think the lady from Maine ought to know more about potatoes than anybody in the United States. She ought to understand that this farm act which was amended last year puts us in the position to place those potatoes in the condition in which they are. And that whole thing is a sectional thing, and for the benefit of the potato growers of Maine as well as the other potato growers in the United States; but that is how it came about. I suggest you talk to Senator Brewster about it. 
 Yes, and the other half is in Maine--25 million bushels are in Maine. 
 That is a matter that probably would be discussed with me before it was done. The Secretary of the Navy has the right to make that order, if he so chooses.  
 No, I don't think we did. I discussed a lot of things historically with Maury Maverick. He brought me in three very interesting books. One about White House furniture. One on army regulations of 1835--which is most interesting--I am going to send that to West Point for their Library.  7 Former Representative Maury Maverick of San Antonio, Tex.  And I forget what the other one is--Oh, I know it is a book by a gentleman named Major General Truman.  He made the first Truman report to the United States President of 1869. And it was on the reconstruction of the South. And while I was in the Senate, when I got out my first report as chairman of that Committee, Mr. Halsey who was then the Secretary of the Senate, hunted up this old Truman report. It is most interesting. 
 Not that I know of.  
 I can't answer the question.  
 I have no comment on Senator Vandenberg's statement, but for your information we have urged constantly that international control be accepted by all the nations of the world. Hardly a week goes by that that matter is not brought up, at my suggestion, in the United Nations.  
 Why certainly I have. I talk to him about it every Monday morning. 
 No, I didn't ask him to recognize anybody. I asked him to consider the passage of FEPG in both Houses. I didn't ask him to recognize anybody. That's the business of the Speaker. He has been in charge of that, and nobody can tell him whom to recognize.  
 I don't think it's necessary or advisable. 
 I covered that in the statement that was made the other day, which covers it completely. 8  8 Item 26.  
 I was informed just now by the Secretary of State that a 20-page statement, in Russian, was delivered to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State can't read Russian, so until it is translated, we can make no comment on it. 9    9 For the text of a State Department release of February 3 questioning the motives of the Soviet Union on their request that the Emperor of Japan be tried, see the Department of State Bulletin   
 I would suggest that the Governor of Pennsylvania join the Democratic Party. That's--  
 He wanted the text of your question.  THE PRESIDENT. Jack will give it to you. Mr. Romagna : "That the Republican Party should be an organization that is broad and not exclusive 
 And I invited the Governor to join the Democratic Party. We already have that sort of party.  
 Wait a minute--I promised to answer him--I promised to answer his question. 
 The Democratic Party is the sort of party he describes. Now what was that question back there? 
 I have no objection to that.  
 I have no comment.  10 The Reconstruction Finance Corporation had ordered the Lustron Corporation, a manufacturer of prefabricated housing, to submit a plan for putting its financial affairs in order. The New York Times reported that on January 5 the Lustron Corporation filed a reorganization plan with the RFC seeking to head off Federal foreclosure action on $22 million worth of overdue loans.  
 No, I have not. I will announce it to you just as soon as I am ready to appoint the man.  
 I asked for normal production under the reinstatement of contract. The contract itself sets that out.  12 See Item 27 
 You will have to translate that yourselves. In some places they can't work a full week on account of the local situation. Now that applies all over the United States. Generally, I would say that it means a 5-day week. 
 Whenever there is an emergency, I will invoke the Taft-Hartley Act, as I told you before. 
 He may know something that I don't. I have no such agreement.  
 That's all right. Try your best; you can't heckle me. Go ahead.  
 The statement that I released covers the ground so far as I expect to go with it. 
 No. No, I have no further statement to make except the one that was released. 
 I don't know whether I can get it ready in a short time, but we are working on it. 13    13 Item 33.  
 He is under consideration.  
 I discussed the matter with Governor Gruening and with the Secretary of Defense, and of course that situation will be covered in the general defense program of the country.  
 For your information, that resolution is passed by a two-thirds vote by both Houses. It will not be law in 1952, you can be sure of that.   
 The matter is under consideration by the State Department now. I think Dean Acheson answered that yesterday in his press conference. 14 Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are entirely welcome.  14 For the statement of Secretary of State Dean Acheson at his press conference on February 1, see the Department of State Bulletin . Note: President Truman's two hundred and fifteenth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, February 2, 1950. 
