  I want to make it strong and emphatic, as there still seem to be rumors about that there has been a rift between the Secretary of State and myself, that there is no such rift, never has been one, and never will be, I hope.   The return of the veterans--the demobilization has reached its peak, and I am issuing a statement today on the reemployment of veterans, and suggesting the job that the U.S. Employment Service has done, and also suggesting to employers, that they list their jobs with the United States Employment Service, so that it will make it much easier to put the veterans to work quickly when they are finally demobilized, and they decide they want to go to work.  The USES has done a remarkable job, up to date, on this putting the people back to work, and I just want to emphasize it. Now, if you have questions, I'll be--  
 Yes they do--yes they do. 
 They have no foundation in fact whatever, and never have had; and I don't know what else they could come from except spontaneous combustion, and somebody just wants to tell a big lie.  
 The Secretary of Labor is handling that. 
 Yes. It has been referred to him. 
 No. You can question him on that.  
 I saw that in the paper. 
 No. Only what I saw in the paper. 
 I have nothing to say about it.  
 No.  
 I only know about that-- I say I only know about that from what I see in the papers, and I have no comment. 
 No. 
 He has a right to his own opinion. I have nothing to say about it. 
 He did not. 
 Just had a very pleasant visit with him, and he expressed his pleasure at being back in the United States, and that he would see me again next week. 
 No, I have not.  
 I am not ready to make that announcement yet. I will make one at a later date.  
 That's right. 
 No. No. I thought I made that perfectly clear last week, that that is a matter of negotiation between the employers and labor.  
 No, I have not. I can't read Russian, and I don't know whether that is the right translation or not, so I have no comment to make.   
 I have no comment to make--at this time. 
 I do not think it is. 
 The question is: Do I think the situation is as fraught with danger as a great many people think it is; and I said I do not think it is.  
 I couldn't understand it?
 I will take care of that if such a bill comes to my desk.  
 No, I have not. 
 I have not issued any such invitation to anybody.  
 Yes, I do. I am sure of it. 
 I see no reason to believe that there won't be a full attendance. I am sure there will be a full attendance. 
 I hope it will be possible for me to welcome them to the United States. That depends altogether on conditions here. 
 Yes, I can. I have been hoping that the Congress would legislate on the situation before we made that appointment. If they do not arrive at a conclusion shortly, we will make that appointment. 
 It is not necessary, but it would clarify the situation to a very great extent, and would give the appointee a better chance to speak for the United States, and for the rest of the world. 
 Well, we'll see. 
 I don't think there is a dear understanding by the public, or even in the Congress, on what is meant by civilian control of that board. I have tried to make that Perfectly clear in my letter of February 2d, I believe it was, on a--the idea is that the military, of course, has an important part to play and should be consulted, but it is a mistake to believe that only the military can guard the national security. The full responsibility for a balanced and forceful development of atomic energy looking toward the national economic good, national security, and a firm, clear position toward other nations and world peace, should rest with the civilian group directly responsible to the President. Now the President is the Commander in Chief of the Armed forces of the United States, and is charged with the security of the United States in the first place; and the civilian board under him would in no way hamper the military in their proper function. 
 I haven't read the Vandenberg amendment. 
 Certainly you can. I am on record on it. If you will read the letter that I sent down there February 2d, it covers the situation completely and thoroughly.  
 No, I can't.  
 Well, would it help you to say I am not alarmed by it?
 I am sure we will work out of it.  
 If you would read the letter sent down there February 2d, that sets out my position very clearly, and I will furnish you with a copy of it after the conference is over.  
 Yes. 
 No. I haven't had the opportunity. He is getting himself ready to take over his duties, and I haven't had a chance. 
 Certainly.  
 He has never had any intention of resigning, and he is not going to resign, either on his own initiative or by request. 
 Oh, yes. All the gossip columns are full of it. Of course, I never believe the gossip columns, but then a lot of people read them. 
 Somebody presents them to me, usually. 
 I didn't say I didn't read, I said I didn't believe them. 
 That's all right. That was a good question--[more laughter]-- anyway.  
 Yes. And I think it's better for a Senator with experience to remain in the Senate. I was in the Senate 10 years myself. I know that length of service and experience is of--is invaluable to a State, and to its Senators. 
 Well, we didn't discuss that at all. 
 No. No New York politics were mentioned. 
 I don't know. 
 Neither subject has been discussed with me. I am not intending to interfere in New York politics. Now if you ask me about Missouri, I can answer your questions. 
 I didn't say I didn't read them, I said I didn't believe them. 
 You had better ask Senator Wagner. I don't know. As I said, I wouldn't believe it, if I saw it in that column.  
 Yes sir, I am. I will answer that straight from the shoulder, Pete. 1    1  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
 No. I am not a voter in Kansas City. If you will ask me about Independence, I will tell you all about it. 
 I am for the election of the present Mayor.   
 Yes, I have; and I think it is a good report, and I sincerely hope they will put it into effect. I know something about that situation. 
 Yes, I do. I certainly do.  
 Well, he didn't send any special message. It was a very friendly letter, which I have answered, expressing his friendship for the United States, and that Brazil would continue to be always friendly to this country. It was just a friendly personal letter from one President to another.  
 Well, if the country as a whole would go back on daylight, it would be a good thing, but I don't like piecemeal daylight saving here and there all over the country. And there was such strong pressure-you know the very first thing the Congress acted on in the program was to set the clock back. So they may want to keep it set back. But I think it ought to be national if we do go on daylight, and not be in a piecemeal manner. 
 Yes. If the Congress would pass it, I would approve it. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Voices: Thank you. Note: President Truman's fifty-fourth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, March 14, 1946. 
