 I have no special announcements to make this morning, so I am ready for questions.  \. I am very sorry that it did happen, of course, and I was as surprised as anybody else that that did happen. We had information, of course, as we had when the trip was made to Brazil and to Mexico City and to Puerto Rico, that there might be picketing and riots, but nobody had any idea that somebody was going to get shot and cause the riot such as the one in Bogota.  1  The International Conference of American States was interrupted by rioting which broke out in the streets of Bogota. The conference was adjourned when the hall in which it was being held was invaded by rioters; it was resumed after order had been restored in the city.  \. I cannot. \. Well, if any action on that takes place, you will be informed. \. I can't answer that question.  \. No, no comment. I am very happy about it.  \. No comment.  1  Speaker of the House Martin intervened in the coal dispute and obtained an agreement whereby both management and labor accepted Senator Bridges as a third member of the trustee board to administer the miners' welfare and retirement fund.  \. The administration is for the program that was sent to the Congress and supported by Mr. Forrestal. That is the administration's program, and that is the one that should be implemented, because that is a balanced defense program, and it is an economical one that the country can understand and afford. Now, what was that? \. I will answer that question at some other date.  \. I don't account for it.  \. Oh, was I? Well, all right!  Unless these gentlemen have some more defense questions they want to ask.  \. Unification eventually will work. It's like every other new organization in the Government, it has to become implemented, and people have to become accustomed to it and used to it. The defense program which was sent to the Congress by the administration is a balanced defense program, one that was--will be for the best interests of the country, and it is one that was agreed on by all branches of the service. That is the program which I hope the Congress will implement.  \. General Marshall commented on that I think very well.  \. That's all right. \. That is Mr. Eccles's viewpoint. \. I haven't discussed it with the Reserve Board, or with Mr. Eccles.  \. I have stated as clearly as I can that the program of the administration was stated by Mr. Forrestal. \. I said by Mr. Forrestal. You can't put words in my mouth, Bert.1 \. No. I have no announcement to make on that. \. I can't answer that question. I am going to try to find the best man for the job. I don't care where that is.  \. Yes, I saw them both a day or two ago. They discussed New York politics with me. That's what they came down here for. \. No. \. It was off the record. You weren't intended to see them ! \. They did that.  \. The picture was all right.   Miss May,1 you asked me about that balcony. I have some pictures here that are right interesting, on the balcony, which show the reasons that I had in view. The proper reasons have never been attributed to me. They thought it was a selfish reason that I had. But that portico on the porch was designed by Thomas Jefferson. It was first built with very narrow, spindly, wooden columns; and in 1855 they finally began to carry out the Jefferson program. And they had the same row over it that they had over this improvement of mine.   1 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald.  But, in order to use that porch in the summertime, it was necessary to have these awnings--I don't know whether you can all see this or not--[holding up some photographs of the south portico]--but these awnings have to be replaced once a year, at a cost of about $700 a year; and we tried concealing them and everything else, but they absolutely ruined the proportions of the columns.  When that porch was designed, it was intended to have a balcony, because Jefferson had designed several down in the University of Virginia, which were finally completed with a balcony. And the idea in putting the balcony up there was to give the pillars the proper proportions, without having them cut in two in the middle by the awnings.  You know, that is a combination Ionic and Corinthian column there. It isn't a pure Ionic column. They have certain proportions in connection with the height as to diameter, and when you cut them in two in the middle, there is an obstruction, as those awnings were. It ruins the looks and proportions of the columns.  You can see how the portico goes back in there. If you come down in the street and take a look at it, you can see that it adds a great deal to the looks of the White House, and makes the south facade look as it was intended to look in the first place. That's the only reason it was done. I never expect to use the balcony, because it's too prominent. I might just as well sit down here in the backyard next to the iron fence.  It was only put there to improve the architectural appearance of the White House in the south, and we had to get rid of those dirty awnings which were a continued expense to the White House upkeep.  \. There were a great many who never left Truman.   \. I did try to tell you, but the people who were so interested in finding fault with it didn't want to find the facts. I tried my best to tell you. \. No, it isn't--no, it isn't. Go ahead. \. Yes, I know that Jefferson designed the porch. \. That porch was designed by Jefferson. It had a balcony on it. Whether he designed it or not, I don't know, but his design came from these southern mansions at that time, which always had a portico. \. No, I don't. I think the Fine Arts Commission is absolutely correct. You will find architects all over the country are in the same mood--of the same opinion as the Fine Arts Commission were in the first place. They got scared when they commenced firing bricks at them. I don't scare easily.   \. If you want to give it any, Miss May.  \. Of course, I won't get to use it. I don't have time to--for any pleasures. I work all the time. I get up at 5 o'clock in the morning, and am sitting at the desk at 6, and I never leave that desk until it's late at night, unless I have to go out somewhere and make a speech, as I did at the Gridiron dinner the other night. \. I anticipate using it during the next 4 years, if I get a chance to use it, that is. I'll be there to use it, don't worry about that. \. What do you mean? \. Oh no, I made that announcement some time ago. That announcement has been made a long time ago. \. No, it isn't. I predicted victory here the other day. You just didn't get it. But I shall never be downhearted at all.  \. I have no comment on that.  \. Life magazine knows a lot of things that I don't know, most of them not facts. \. Well, that is something I don't know, either. I never heard of it before. I don't intend to do it, if that's the proper answer to give you. General Eisenhower is going up and run a university. \. You will have to ask them. I can't answer that. They have a right to attend to their own business, the same as I have mine; only I don't get to attend to mine without interference.  \. No--I only know that they are great friends, that Eisenhower and George Allen are congenial. They like to be in each other's company. And I like them both, too, and like to be in their company. \. Not that I know of. The best thing to do would be to ask them. \. No. I think the best thing to do is to ask them.  \. No, I have no comment. I can't comment on an election before it has taken place. I will comment on it afterwards.  Reporter: Thank you, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and forty second news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, April 15, 1948. 
