 Please be seated.   Before you start off, I think maybe I'd better remind you of a statement that I made in a speech on April 11th.  1   I want to quote one paragraph, and it covers the Far Eastern situation pretty well. This is a quotation, and the speech is available to you. I am sure all of you have it.   1   See Item 78.  : "The Communist side must now choose its course of action. The Communist rulers may press the attack against us. They may take further action which will spread the conflict. They have that choice, and with it the awful responsibility for what may follow. The Communists also have the choice of a peaceful settlement which could lead to a general relaxation of tensions in the Far East. The decision is theirs, because the forces of the United Nations will strive to limit the conflict if possible."  I think that statement sums up the policy of the United States. And since the Senate committees are going into the thing in detail, I think the best approach to this whole situation is to let the Senate committees get the facts and come to a conclusion.  Now I am ready for questions.  
 I did not. I never promise judgeships to anybody. I try to pick the best man for those places, and I don't do it on a promise basis politically or otherwise. 
 That is the business of the Senate and not mine.  
 Everybody else knows why!  
 May,  2  may I quote the law to you--that was passed at my suggestion-to create permanent, lifetime jobs for the five-star generals and admirals who have been at the top in the winning of World War II. They are on exactly the same status as General Pershing was after the First World War.   2  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 That is correct. I've recalled General Eisenhower, I've recalled Admiral Nimitz, and-- 
 Not at the present time, May. Of course I knew what you were after all the time.  I could have told you in the first place, if you had asked the question straight out, instead of going all around. I would have answered it just the same. 
 I didn't think you knew the law. 
 What is it, Eddie?   3    3  Edward T. Folliard of the Washington Post.  
 Well, it had reference particularly to the hearings in the Senate. 
 What do you mean? I don't understand the connection-- 
 I have no comment to make on that statement at all. 
 Yes, surely--as many as you want.  
 I have no comment to make on that, either.   4  On April 21 the New York Times printed a summary of the Wake Island conversations based on what the writer described as "documented sources on the meeting." Among other things the article stated that General MacArthur had expressed doubt that Red China would intervene in Korea and was so confident of victory that he offered what he regarded as his best troops for service in Europe. The article was written by Anthony H. Leviero.  See also Item 95 . 
 Go ahead. 
 I remember a certain turmoil that was created by an interview I had with Arthur Krock. And some of your people wept and cried, and I finally made a statement that I would talk to anybody I pleased any time I pleased. I didn't talk to Mr. Leviero, however. 
 Did not!  
 That's right. 
 We will cross that bridge when we get to it. 
 Over the radio in the White House!  
 I have no comment. I am not in the field, and of course I can't comment on the situation.   5  On April 24 a new offensive by Chinese Communist troops broke through the lines of the United Nations forces and carried the Communists south of the 38th parallel. The advance had moved as far south as Munsan, 20 miles northwest of Seoul, by April 26.  
 I will answer that question when it comes up to me. It isn't up to me as yet.   6  Donald S. Dawson, Administrative Assistant to the President.  
 It is my understanding that the Senate Committee on Public Works went very carefully into the situation and voted almost unanimously. There was only one vote in the Committee against the reporting of the bill which was before the Congress. That was a good bill, and one that was in the public interest. Senator Holland made a good fight to get it over. I think eventually something along the lines as reported by the Public Works Committee will be put into effect for the welfare of the country, as it should be.  
 I am not in a position to answer that question, Smitty.  7    7  Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations.  
 No, I haven't. He isn't going to become Secretary of State--I can say that to you. I have a Secretary of State with whom I am very well satisfied.  
 Well, I think that any Democratic candidate would be glad to speak in North Carolina.   What is the matter, boys and ladies? Are you out of questions ?  
 I have no way of knowing whether that is true or not, so I cannot comment on it. When I came back from Wake Island, at the request of General MacArthur I made Whitney a major general.   8  Maj. Gen. Courtney Whitney. 
 He seems to be the press secretary and secretary for General MacArthur. All I know is what I see in the newspapers.  
 I know nothing about that at the present time. I think the best thing for you to do would be to take it up with the Secretary of Defense. He probably would tell you straight from the shoulder just what his status is. 
 Oh no. He is in the United States now, and he can say what he pleases and go where he pleases and do whatever he likes. I have no strings on him. I do have strings on him, but I don't intend to pull them. 
 It seems to be the case. 
 Yes, but I am not going to pull them. I am glad to have him talk. He's telling a lot of things that ought to be said.  
 Yes, at noon.  9    9  See Item 91. 
 I think the best plan would be for you to read the message when it goes down to Congress. It will be there at 12 o'clock, and then be open for publication. I don't like to give out a message before the Congress has a chance to hear it read.  
 Ask anything you like, May. 
 I think probably your impression is correct. 
 I might have documented it myself, you can't tell, May. I say I might have. That doesn't give you anything at all, does it ? 
 I can't answer questions like that, Smitty; you know it.  I think a great deal of information will come out at the Senate hearings that will interest you. And I don't want to comment on that because that is up to the Senate committees. I wish you would read history. It is most interesting. There was a Senate committee called "The Committee on the Conduct of the War." After the Battle of Gettysburg they got General Meade down before that Committee, and abused him like a pickpocket. It is a most interesting document. There are several other instances of the same sort. History seems to repeat itself as we go along through the world. This is not anything new or original, what's happened in the last few weeks. If you will study history, you will find a most easy and simple answer to everything in which you are interested. 
 Well, I will tell you one place that you can look that will be most interesting, Sandburg's "Life of Lincoln"--there are only six volumes of it, about that thick--[indicating]. And then "Lincoln Finds a General," which recently came out. And if you will read the memoirs of General Grant, you'll find something most interesting in that. And I could cite you two or three other instances. I think if you will read President Polk's diary, you will find something most interesting about Winfield Scott that will amuse you very much. You might also read Washington's diary on his troubles with the Conway cabal and Charles Lee. They are most interesting. 
 No, I'm going to make you do a little work on your own.  You will have to do a little work on your own. I think the Library of Congress would fix you up, if you asked them. They have a Legislative Reference Service there that will give you anything you want. They abused General Meade like a pickpocket--you read that. 
 I make no inferences--I ask you to read history and draw your own inferences. I'm making none for you. I'm just referring you to some very interesting things that have happened in the past. 
 Yes he did. So did General McClellan, if I remember correctly. 
 No, I have no comment at all.   Q. Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and sixty-first news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, April 26, 1951. 
