 Good morning. Please be seated.   I want to make an announcement about next week's press conference. It will be held down here in the Natural History Building at 10th and Constitution Avenue. It will be a joint press conference for you and the American Society of Newspaper Editors, which is why we are moving to a larger hall. That is also the storage place for dinosaurs.   The hour is 4:30, instead of 4. Give you a little more time to get there.  \. Well, there is only one reason: because I didn't want to. That's the best reason I know. I made up my mind a long time ago on it. I think a year or two ago you asked me if I had made up my mind, and I told you I had. But I had to wait until the right time to announce it. \. The biggest audience I will ever have in my life.  I wanted it put out so it could not possibly be distorted, so I put it out myself with everybody listening. And I made it as plain as English can be written, so far as I know. 1  Item 69. \. NO. I will not accept a draft.  \. I can't--have no way of knowing. I hope it will be soon.  2 see Items 82, 83, 103, 110.  \. I have not--no--nothing to say on the subject now.  3 on April 11 the White House released the text of the exchange of letters between Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Secretary of Defense Robert A. Lovett, in which General Eisenhower requested release from his assignment as Supreme Commander, Allied Powers Europe, and the Secretary promised to take action to obtain it. General Eisenhower's letter of resignation to Lt. Gen. Paul Ely, Chairman, The Standing Group, North Atlantic Treaty Organization, was also included in the release. The text of the correspondence is printed in the Department of State Bulletin . \. Nothing to say. \. Well, that appointment was made with the approval and advice of the associated countries. I think General Eisenhower's right to quit, or do as he pleases, rests entirely with him. And the appointment of his successor will follow the same procedure--if, as, and when he does quit. But the appointment to follow, we will have the agreement of the associated nations -- \. Yes. \. They asked me to appoint an American commander for the allied troops, just as I was asked to appoint the allied commander in Asia. \. Not by name, no. Came up for me to make the appointment, and they were all very happy at the appointment I made. And so was I. \. Well, it is a continuing authorization, but it is courtesy to have it continued at each time. \. The procedure will be followed to keep friendly with the allies. \. It will be to me through the Secretary of Defense. Come through channels. \. Then come to me. \. I will just announce it. \. The parties to that dispute are negotiating for a settlement, and I want that negotiation carried through as a collective bargaining affair. I will not interfere with it. \. That's final. That's final. \. I am not the negotiator for these things. That is a matter for the collective bargaining. I did not enter into it. I don't expect to. \. None whatever. None whatever. \. It is kind of hard to make yourself perfectly plain, but this is a collective bargaining matter, and I want these parties to reach an agreement by collective bargaining. What's the matter, Smitty? 4   4 Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. \. I will cross that bridge when I get to it. But I want this negotiation to be successful, and I think it can be.  \. That figure stands just as it was in the speech, and I am not going into details about it at all.  \. The Wage Stabilization Board did not stop--step out of its prerogatives when it made the recommendation.  \. No. No, I haven't. I will announce it as soon as I have one.  5 See Item 70. \. No.  6  Raymond S. McKeough, former Representative from Illinois. \. Still under consideration.  They will probably remain there for a long time.  7  See Item 35 . \. When I find him I will announce it to you and you will have it in plenty of time.  8 On April 9 the White House released the text of Mr. Young's letter of resignation as a member of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia and the President's letter of acceptance. Mr. Young's resignation became effective May 31, 1952. \. I haven't heard anything about it. I haven't heard anything about it.  \. NO comment.  9 On April 9, Clarence B. Randall, president of Inland Steel Company, spoke on a nationwide radio and television broadcast, regarding the seizure of the steel mills by President Truman. The text of Mr. Randall's remarks is published in the Congressional Record .  \. When the appropriation bill comes to me--it's in the course of action now--then I will comment on it.  \. Not that I know of. \. Judge Herron, down in Tennessee--a very fine gentleman, and a friend of mine. He is under consideration, but I have come to no conclusion about the appointment. \. He's all right--a fine man.  \. I think they asked me to appoint a supreme commander. \. I did not put any qualification on it at all. \. I would do my best, if they still want me to continue to have that power--I would do my best to find the best man available for the purpose. \. That's fine.  \. The order speaks for itself, and I can't elaborate on it. \. I don't expect to comment on anything in connection with this, as long as these negotiations are going on. I would like to make that final.  \. Well, I wish you wouldn't be. \. The principal reason why they would ask me to make the appointment is because we are the keystone of the defense of the free world. \. I could. I didn't say I would. \. What is it, Bob? 11  \. Whenever General Eisenhower is ready to have the announcement made, I will make it. It is strictly up to him.  11 Robert G. Nixon of International News Service.  \. That is a matter that is in the hands of the national chairman.  12  Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota.  \. I am not a good prophet. I hope it will.  \. The matter has not been considered.  \. Well, I don't think so. I expect to campaign for the nominee after the convention. \. I hope it won't be necessary for me to do that. But the President has a right to a preference, the same as any other citizen. \. No, I don't think so. It has been done before. \. I will support the Democratic ticket no matter who is nominated.  13 Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee. \. I have no preference to express right now.  14 Governor Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois.  \. None whatever. You had better talk to the Chairman of the Committee, 16  and find out for sure.  15  On May 20 the Senate confirmed the appointment of James P. McGranery as Attorney General.  16  Senator Pat McCarran of Nevada, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.  \. I don't think so. There is no reason why I should go to the convention. I am sure I won't be a delegate from Missouri.  \. I would like to go. I don't know whether I can or not, but I would like very much to go to that convention. I have been to nearly every Missouri State convention since I can remember.  \. I don't see how I can get there. I would like very much to go, but I just don't see how I can get there. Just too much to do around here. My day has got longer than it was before--if that is possible.  \. Well, that is a matter that is up to the national committee. I will render them all the assistance they think I should, and I will do my best, because I want a Democrat in the White House next time.  17 W. Averell Harriman, Director for Mutual Security.  Merriman Smith: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. That's all right. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninety-ninth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, April 10, 1952. 
