 I have a couple of announcements to make this morning.   Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney is to be Under Secretary of Commerce, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation last spring of William C. Foster, now with the Economic Cooperation Administration. Mr. Whitney is now serving as Assistant Secretary for Air.   And I want to make a statement which will be available after the conference on the Israeli-Egyptian armistice. 
 It's a statement on the Israeli-Egyptian armistice which was just signed.   "I am immensely gratified over the news from Rhodes that the Representatives of Egypt and Israel have signed an armistice agreement. This act is a tribute to the restraint and statesmanship of the two governments. I wish, also, to congratulate the United Nations Mediator, Dr. Ralph Bunche, whose untiring efforts have so greatly contributed to the success of these negotiations.  "I hope that now a formal armistice has been agreed upon between Egypt and Israel, this pattern for peace will be followed rapidly in the conclusion of similar agreements between Israel and the other Arab States. The general armistice will then, I trust, lead to the attainment of permanent peace, thus freeing the talents of these Near Eastern peoples for constructive work in the development of their respective countries. As a member of the Palestine Conciliation Commission, the United States stands ready to assist the parties to the rapid conclusion of a just and honorable peace."  I am ready for questions.  
 Within several weeks I expect to have a message on health insurance and the health situation generally. It will be several weeks before it is ready. 
 When the message is ready why it will explain to you just exactly what I mean and everything, and it will be perfectly clear. I don't like to comment on it before it is ready. 
 Health. It will be confined strictly to health. 
 That's right, the whole national health program, and it will be stated very plainly, so there won't be any argument about it.  
 Ambassador Bruce was just reporting to me on the Argentine situation. I have no comment on what he had to say. 
 I hope he will.  
 I am very happy at what the British spokesman had to say. I do not know the details, and I can't answer the latter half of your question. The Marshall plan should be continued until European recovery is assured.  
 I know nothing about the hearing you are talking about, and I can't comment on it, therefore.  
 I Was anxious to have that trade agreements treaty approved as soon as possible. And March 5 is the date. I hope they will get it through because that date is a weekend.  
 No. I think that covers it. That is exactly what we discussed. 
 Broad gauge proposition on the planning for the District.  
 That is correct.  1 The proposed Columbia Valley Administration. 
 I will announce it when it is ready. I can't make any announcement now on that, because we are not ready.  
 Well, I don't like to comment on that at this time. I think there are certain developments in the Middle East that would be for the welfare and benefit of the whole region; and at a later date, after peace has been arrived at in that section, why we can discuss them in detail.  
 If it takes 4 years, all right. If the British announcement proves to be correct, it may not take that long.  
 I have not been able to analyze that report. I can't comment on a bill that is introduced, because I don't know what it contains.  
 I will comment on that matter when it comes before me.  
 No, I do not.  
 I have been making suggestions which I think would be helpful to the Virgin Islands ever since I have been President. I shall continue to make those recommendations.  
 No. I am not going to Independence. I can't. I have too much business here.  
 I fear he will have to remain confused.   2  In the Washington Evening Star of February 23 a news item states that a change had been made in the official transcript of the President's remarks at the dinner honoring General Vaughan ; that in the paragraph toward the close which begins "Now, I am just as fond and just as loyal" the President had used the expression "any SOB" instead of the milder "anyone" which appears in the release.  The editorial referred to, which appears in the same edition of the Star, follows:  "Blankety Blank, Mr. President!  "Our language is plagued with initials already. They drive a man wild. Reading a newspaper story is becoming a frightful experience, trying to remember what is meant by such terms as ERP, ECA, BLS, CARE, OEM, WAA, IMF, WHO, UNO. Now the President, unfortunately, has got into the habit of speaking in the same lingo. The Star protests. Why, if he wants to bring it into a public speech at all, does he not say "The Senate Office Building" instead of reducing the term to such a meaningless symbol as SOB? There is a limit to everything. The President has gone too far." 
 The editorial writer on the Washington Star. 
 You would have to see about that, Joe. 3   3  Joseph A. Foz of the Washington Star. 
 Very satisfactory to me.   
 I can say categorically that they were not.  Probably nominated by themselves.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and seventieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, February 24, 1949. 
