 Please be seated. I have no announcements to make.  \. Well, if the young boys who got up that resolution and passed it by a silent vote had the responsibility of furnishing the United States with a Secretary of State, they undoubtedly would--with the responsibility--appoint the best man for the job in the United States, and that is Dean Acheson. \. Well, I can't--the answer that I would make to them is not printable, so I have nothing more to say.  Mr. Short  1  : Your answer is the one you made.  THE PRESIDENT. I made the answer. That doesn't need any elaboration.  1 Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President.  \. Fire. \. Which he did not get, and which he won't. \. Of course not.  \. NO comment. You didn't get what you wanted, did you?   \. Fire away. \. Congressman Beckworth was in to talk to me about some things that affected the campaign in Texas.  \. I am glad there are still a lot of good Democrats in Texas.   \. I will answer that question at a later date..I can't answer it today.  \. He did not need any approval at all. He came to talk to me about going there, and an American has a right to go anywhere he pleases, if he can get a visa for it. \. I asked him to do nothing. \. Mr. Jones of the Cities Service Company. He is chairman of the board--and a very fine man, by the way. \. No, I don't. \. I don't happen to know his first name.  \. No, I don't. Didn't do me any harm before. I carried Texas by more than two to one.  You people don't understand this situation in Texas or Louisiana, or anywhere else in the South. A great many people down there don't own oil wells, are not multimillionaires, and they will vote the Democratic ticket. \. I don't know, but I made my stand perfectly clear on the tidelands long before that--long before that.  \. I do.  \. You will just have to find that out as we go along. I never have done that, views to the contrary notwithstanding.   2 See Items 240-242,  \. There is not. All the cards are on the table, and published in the newspapers every day in toto.  \. I haven't read the report, and I can't comment on it.  \. You will be notified of that in time. Everything will be in order.  \. Yes, indeed. I want to give that all the encouragement possible.  He is trying to pull an 1852 on us, when the Whig Party went out of business. \. I think it's a good thing for the Republican Party to have a few things stirred up in it. It helps the Democrats. That's what I am interested in.  \. I can't make any prophecies. I never pretended to be a prophet, or a pollster, either. But I can guess pretty well. \. What's that? \. I don't make any prophecies on political affairs. I have been at it too long. I have been in elective public office for practically 30 years, and have had nearly every office from the county to the State and the Nation. And never have had one that I really wanted, and never had one that I let them take away from me, so I think that's a pretty good record. \. It was just a comment, there wasn't any question. \. There will be no more comment on Korea. You needn't ask me any more questions on it. \. I make no comment--no comment. I have said what I think, and that's enough.  Are you running out of soap ?  \. No comment. \. I don't believe there is. If I could think of anything, why I would give it to you. Reporter. Thank you, sir. Note: President Truman's three hundred and fourteenth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, August 28, 1952. 
