  I have one announcement to make. I canceled two other speaking engagements, one in New York on the 10th, and the other in New York on the 23d. That cleans up the speaking engagements to date. 
 Dedication of the U.N.-cornerstone laying of the United Nations Building. 
 On the 23d was Dr. Weizmann. 
 Dr. Chaim Weizmann. 1   1 President of Israel. 
 Yes, the reason is very simple. I have been so thoroughly covered up with work since I came back from Florida that I am spending all my time trying to get my desk cleaned up and have as many interviews as possible with Members of Congress who have been very anxious to see me on various subjects. So I shall spend most of my time working all the time--in fact from daylight until dark.  
 All right.  
 No, I haven't, because I am not familiar enough with it to make any comments. I was once on the District Committee, but I didn't stay there very long, so I am not familiar with finances in the District, so I couldn't comment intelligently on it.  
 I don't know.  
 Yes, I shall be present. That takes place here in Washington.  
 I beg your pardon? 
 You out-count me one. I only saw him once. 
 I spent 15 minutes with him discussing the displaced persons bill.  
 I discussed the political situation in California with him. 
 Very well--very bright.  
 Gordon Dean has been under consideration along with several other people.  
 No, he has not. 
 I don't--I haven't talked to him on the subject at all.  
 No, he did not. 
 No, he did not.  You might ask him. 
 Was he? He has had experience with you before.  
 It isn't ready yet. It's in the works. It has been discussed on numerous occasions, but it isn't yet ready to present to me for final decision.  
 There will be no statement in the near future that I know of. No reason for it.  
 I had a discussion on the subject with the Secretary of the Treasury just the other day, and the original estimate, he says, is working out almost to the dot. 
 A deficit--I don't know what the final appropriation bills will be-there is an estimated deficit of about $6 or $700 million. 
 Yes.  
 We have been discussing the situation. I have been trying to persuade Mr. Bedell Smith to stay. I don't know whether he will or not. I think I am going to see him tomorrow morning to discuss the matter further. 
 Yes. Several people have been mentioned, including Dr. Bunche. He has been mentioned. 
 He has been mentioned in the columns. Never been mentioned to me. Only been mentioned in the columns, as far as I know.  
 I was very happy that the House took the action it did. I think that is a constructive, forward-looking step, and I am exceedingly happy that they recommitted the bill. 
 I haven't seen the positive returns, and I have no comment, anyway.  
 I hadn't heard that one. I have heard nearly every other one. They have had him all over the world, but that's one that's new. I haven't heard that one.  
 I have no comment on that at the present time. That comment must come later when the legislation comes up. I am still hopeful that we will get that program through.  
 I am still back of Mon Wallgren for the job I appointed him to. 2   2 Earlier the President had nominated Mon C. Wallgren, former Governor of Washington, to be Chairman of the National Security Resources Board. The nomination was pending before the Senate. 
 Yes. I never lay down on people. You ought to know that by this time, Pete. 3  You had the first experience with it in St. Louis.  3  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
 I hadn't heard anything about that.  
 I can't tell you what General Smith intends to do. You will have to ask him. He is a free agent.  
 I told you that I would give you plenty of time to pack your grips to take that trip. You will be informed in plenty of time.  
 I am very sorry that the Senate did that. 
 No comment.  
 No. I will wait until the conference committee meets and sends me a bill, and then I will comment on the bill when it reaches me.  
 Well, I will--we have the matter under consideration. If I send one, I will give it to you in plenty of time so you can publish it.  
 I don't expect to be out of town during April. 
 That's right.  
 No, no. I always see Congressmen and Senators at their request. They have made so many requests that I have to stay here in order to see them. I never turn them down when they want to come in. That has always been the policy ever since I have been here.  
 No, I haven't. There is no reason for me to comment.  
 I think it was a wonderful appointment. Dr. Graham is a great American and a great citizen. I have sent him on several special missions myself, and he has always worked successfully in the public interest. He will make a good Senator.  
 The Secretary of State will sign for the United States, just as the Secretary of State signed the United Nations Charter.  
 No. They will appear on the record as they come in. You will be informed.  
 I don't know anything about it. I haven't read the bill, in either instance, and I can't comment on it until it gets to my desk. Then I will comment on it copiously, if it needs comment.  
 I said that he had been mentioned in several columns as a possible Ambassador to Moscow, and that is as far as I went. 
 You ought to know, Tony! 4   4 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press.  
 That's right. There are occasions when I ask Members of the various committees to come in and talk to me on subjects, but most of the requests come directly from the Congressmen and Senators themselves. 
 Yes, I asked Congressman. Waiter to come in to discuss the displaced persons bill. 
 No priority. They will come in in the order in which they ask to come in. 
 Not necessary. It's an "at home" for the business of the Government. 
 Always close relationships between Members of Congress and myself, in spite of what the columnists have had to say. 
 Well yes, even closer. 
 Oh, quite a number. I have just as many of them as I do the other brand. Republicans, too, whenever they want to, can come in.  
 That's right.  
 They are working on it now. It isn't ready. Whenever it's ready. I will let you know. 
 Oh, of course it will be consistent with the message that has gone down on the subject.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are entirely welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and seventythird news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, March 24, 1949. 
