THE PRESIDENT .  A current issue of a weekly news magazine contains an article which states that certain officials have voiced criticism regarding the ability of the United Nations truce team at Panmunjon. I wish to make it perfectly clear that the responsible officials of this Government, and myself in particular, have complete and unequivocal confidence in the integrity and competence of our negotiators. They are doing a splendid job.   The Attorney General 1  has resigned.    1  J. Howard McGrath served as Attorney General from August 24, 1949, to April 7, 1952.  And James P. McGranery, United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, will take his place. 2   2 James P. McGranery was sworn in as Attorney General on May 27, 1952. 
 Yes. He is one of the judges for the eastern district. There are several. 
 James P. McGranery. And the program will be carried on by the Attorney General from now on. 
 Yes--
--the investigation cleanup. 
 That is up to them--I don't run those congressional committees. They run themselves--much to my regret.  3  Representative Frank L. Chelf of Kentucky, chairman of a special subcommittee of the House Committee on the Judiciary. 
 I Saw it in the paper.  4  Newbold Morris, who had been serving as Special Assistant to the Attorney General to probe Federal corruption, was dismissed by Attorney General McGrath on April 3, 1952.
 I saw that in the paper. 
 It was under discussion, but I wasn't consulted when it was done. 
 They talked to me about it--I was talked to about it, but I made no suggestion or--  
 What?  5 The reporter referred to a conversation which took place between the President and Attorney General McGrath while they were waiting at the Washington National Airport to welcome Queen Juliana of the Netherlands and her husband Prince Bernhard.
 That is a private conversation, and it will not be quoted by me. 
 Let the lady speak. Be polite just once.   
 I can't answer the question. 
 The Attorney General resigned just now. 
 I can't answer that question. I have got a new Attorney General. 
 The new Attorney General will have a free hand. 
 Because he wanted to. The best reason I know.  I think that's the best answer you can get. 
 No. I can't--to either question. 
 I have never seen one, so I can't answer a question like that.  6  Newbold Morris was reported to have given questionnaires on personal affairs to employees of the Justice Department as a part of his investigatory procedure. 
 By telephone. 
 Saw it in the paper. 
 Yes--on the ticker--that's where I saw it. 
 As quickly as possible. 
 I don't want to answer that question. 
 I don't want to answer that question. 
 The fact that it was going to take place right away. 
 What is it? 
 Well, I have got to send his name down to the Congress, and they will have to act on it. 
 I don't know how long that will take. 
 AS Soon as he is confirmed. 
 I talked to him, yes. 
 About an hour and a half ago. I don't believe it was quite that long, was it, Joe? 7 Mr. Short: That's right, sir.  7 Joseph H. Short, Secretary to the President. 
 He resigned.  
 I can't answer that question. 
 I can't answer the question.
 Before. 
 That is a matter for the Attorney General to handle. The Attorney General appointed him and the Attorney General brought him down to Washington. It is up to the Attorney General to decide what to do with him.  Edward T. Folliard : Mr. President, one more question--  THE PRESIDENT. All right. 
 That is up to the Attorney General. 
 I am glad you gave a plug for the Washington Post.  
 They will remain in the charge of the Attorney General. They are his files no matter what happens. 
 Yes. A resignation is always voluntary. 
 I don't want to discuss that. 
 They have always been in it. 
 That is a matter for the Attorney General to settle, and that will be the new Attorney General. 
 I haven't discussed the matter with him. 
 I can't say. I don't think he will come down until he winds up his judicial affairs, and until he is confirmed by the Senate. 
 No. 
 No. That is up to him. 
 You are kind of tangled up, aren't you, May?  Now, come on and ask your question.  Mrs. Craig: Well, sir, I am.  THE PRESIDENT. All right--I'm sorry.  Mrs. Craig: Because we understood that Mr. Morris was your man to conduct it, and now he is fired. You don't tell us whether it is, in your opinion, a justifiable dismissal. It leaves Mr. Morris under a cloud.  THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Morris was brought down here by the Attorney General. He was hired by the Attorney General, and the Attorney General fired him. Now, that's all there is to it, May. Mrs. Craig: Then we were wrong--  THE PRESIDENT. And I have got a new Attorney General. Mrs. Craig: --in thinking he was your man?  THE PRESIDENT. He was not my man. Never was. 
 Go ahead now. You want to talk Missouri politics? 
 That's all right.  I can talk "faster" about that. 
 General Vaughan didn't do that.  8  Maj. Gen. Harry H. Vaughan, Military Aide to the President.
 He didn't do anything. 
 He didn't do anything, Pete. 9   9  Raymond P. Brandt of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
 No, some of them may have called him, but he never called any of them. 
 You are talking about the Post-Dispatch's attitude toward General Vaughan, and it isn't the right one. 
 Well now, if it will help the situation, I am not. 
 I shall not be a candidate for the United States Senate from Missouri.  That satisfies you, doesn't it? 
 Same answer.  
 What? I will tell you that when it comes time for me to vote in the primary, I will tell you the person for whom I will vote. 
 Well, it will be time enough then. 
 I gave no one a green light.  10 W. Smart Symington, former Administrator of the Reconstruction finance Corporation and candidate for the Democratic nomination for Senator from Missouri. 
 Yes, sir.  
 Certainly. That's my home. 
 I have got a lot of things I expect to do, and I think they will all be for the welfare of the country. I am going to try my best to continue to fight for peace in the world, and for the welfare of the people of the United States as a whole. 
 Well, I will cross that river when I get to it. I am not talented in that direction.  You can never tell what a man can do.  
 How does he want to dispose of them? Does he want to put them in the river?  I made a suggestion one time that it would be a grand thing if ex-Presidents and ex-Vice Presidents could have the freedom of the floor of the House and the Senate to talk, but not to vote. Is that the bill?
 Well, I am in favor of it.  
 No, not at the present time. I will announce it when the time comes.  11 Charles E. Wilson resigned as Director, Office of Defense Mobilization, effective March 31, 1952 .  
 No comment.  
 No. We are not, I hope. 
 No comment. I said that this would be a free convention. And it will be.  12  Governor Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois.  
 I am not ready to answer that question. Reporter. Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and ninety-eighth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, April 3, 1952. 
