  Please be seated. I have one short announcement to make, and that is that on Saturday I am going over to inspect the Aberdeen, Md., Proving Grounds. This will be placed on the bulletin board, and anybody that feels like he would like to fire a bazooka or get fired at by one, will be welcome to go. That's all I have. 
 Nine o'clock. 
 Yes. 
 By train. 
 When we get through. I don't know what time that will be. 
 Well, I haven't any under consideration right now.  
 That is not true. 
 If you will read the messages I sent down, you will find that that is not true. 
 Why certainly--there is no misunderstanding between the State of New York and the President.  
 No, I do not. 
 No.  
 I haven't seen it. 
 I haven't seen the letter. 
 I can't comment on it.  
 No comment.  
 That letter has said exactly what I meant, and still says what I mean.   1  See Item 29.  What's the matter with everybody?  
 Too bad--you didn't used to do that when I made you stand up.   
 I think that would be a good appointment, if we can get him to do it. Mr. Murphy looks exactly like Grover Cleveland, and he is a fighter, too.  2  Michael V. DiSalle, Director of Price Stabilization.  3  Police Commissioner Thomas F. Murphy of New York City.  
 I have no comment. I think there is more in the papers about that than any comment I could make. 
 What about? Where is it you want to go? 
 I have no comment on that. That is a military matter, and the President of the United States has never interfered with military maneuvers in the field, and he doesn't expect to interfere in it now. 
 No, I haven't. No comment. We have got a lot of strategists up there.   Mr. Short: 4  Mr. President, I think that quote from McCabe was an inaccurate quote.  THE PRESIDENT. What one was that?  4 Joseph Short, Secretary to the President.  Mr. Short: The quote from the McCabe letter that was read over there.  THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that was an accurate quote. Joe says he doesn't believe that that quote that was read over there from a letter I wrote to McCabe was an accurate one. Jack, 5  let's find it and read it back.  5 Jack Romagna, White House Official Reporter. 
 I think I expressed appreciation at their cooperation, if I remember correctly. 
 I think you had better quote the full letter, because I say that letter still stands. I will see that you get the full letter.  Mr. Short: if you will come to my office, I will make the full letter available. 
 I haven't seen the letter.  
 That is a strategic matter. It is a strategic matter, and it is in the hands of the Commanding General of the Far East. 
 Oh, yes, and there will be a lot more discussion on that subject, too, but I don't intend to comment on it today. 
 It is still in effect. 
 No, I think the Commanding General of the Far East Command has all the authority necessary to carry on the military operations. And that is his job. 
 As you know, Tony, 6  I told you the other day that I thought that was a trial balloon sent up by the pressroom of the White House.   6 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. 
 I know, but then they are friends of nearly everybody in the pressroom, and you attend cocktail parties and places, and that is where all these rumors start.  
 They have me too, Tony. All I know is what I see in the papers. 
 Well, I am going out to Aberdeen Saturday. 
 I can't answer that today. 
 That's a lovely place. That's a lovely place. 
 I would like to go there, but I doubt very much whether I will have the opportunity.  
 No, I have not. I have not.   7 Hiram Bingham, Chairman, Loyalty Review Board, U.S. Civil Service Commission. 
 That is a matter that the Nimitz commission 8  is going into completely, and I don't care to comment on it now.  8 The President's Commission on Internal Security and Individual Rights.  
 Yes, I am very sorry that they decided to delay. The objective in sending down the message I did on the tax program 9  was as quickly as possible to obtain a tax measure that would help stop inflation; and then the deliberations could be carried on when it becomes necessary for further taxes, which will amount to about $16 1/2 billion altogether.  9  Item 28. 
 The message speaks for me. 
 I still believe what the message said.  
 The Stabilization people are working on that now, and I have done everything I can at the present time. 
 If Mr. Wilson 10  and his Defense Production people feel that that legislation is necessary, I shall ask for it.  10 Charles E. Wilson, Director, Office of Defense Mobilization. 
 Not now. I have the--the Defense Production organization is working on the situation, in a sincere effort to prevent a spiral of prices in food--and other things as well.  
 I am not an expert on that, and I can't answer that question.  
 I beg your pardon? 
 They are still in conference, and I have no comment to make on that.  
 General Marshall's testimony is in line with what I believe, and that is the reason he made the statement. We have been working on that policy right along, and he set it out very simply and clearly.  11 Secretary of Defense George C. Marshall spoke before the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees on the question of assigning U.S. ground forces to duty in Europe . 
 I don't believe you have. I can't think of anything!  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fifty-fifth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, February 15, 1951. 
