 Ladies and gentlemen, I have no special statements to make to you this morning. I thought you might have some questions you would want to ask.  
 No comment. 
 Yes, I see General Clay and General Marshall later in the day. 
 I have an appointment with General Marshall at 12:30. Yes. 
 General Clay is coming in then with General Marshall. 
 I will not. I will not.  1 see Item 165. 
 No, I will not. 
 It does.  
 Yes, I hope to. The message is the best evidence. It will speak for itself, and it will be ready in a few days, and I will let you see it on Tuesday at 12:30. 
 Yes, you will have a little advance notice. The release hour will be whenever the reading starts. 
 I believe it's 12:30. 
 It has to be. They have to meet at 12 o'clock.  
 I set those reasons out very carefully at Philadelphia. 
 All right--that's the answer.  
 No comment.  2 Herbert Brownell, Jr., Republican campaign manager.  
 The message will speak for itself. You had better wait until the message comes out, then I will tell you all about it.  Mr. Ross has been announcing to you the principal things that will be asked for. But there are some details that are still being worked out, and when the message comes out, it will be furnished to you in plenty of time so you can analyze it.  
 Well, that is going to be started immediately. There will be some of them in to see me today, I think. 
 No, it would not. They are political leaders that will come to see me, and not labor leaders. 
 I imagine it will. McGrath will make out the lists. He is the party chairman.  
 No, I haven't. I will announce it to you just as soon as I do decide.  
 I have no comment.  
 I think they are good. In fact, I think they are excellent. General Marshall made a statement .on that yesterday, in which we are in complete agreement. 1   1  Secretary of state Marshall's statement, released to the press on July 21, follows: "I can merely say at this time that our position I think is well understood. We will not be coerced or intimidated in any way in our procedures under the rights and responsibilities that we have in Berlin and generally in .Germany. At the same time we will proceed to Invoke every possible resource of negotiation and diplomatic procedure to reach an acceptable solution to avoid the tragedy of war for the world. But I repeat again, we are not going to be coerced."  
 Well now, that is up to the Congress. They can make it as long or as short as they choose. They are in complete control of that. 
 I shall ask the Congress to follow out the usual program that is in every message, and that is all. It will be in the message. 
 I can't tell about that until they get through. 
 I will probably consult with the Democratic leaders in the Congress. 
 No. 
 No. 
 Yes, I did. 
 Well, I can't answer that question. That is up to Congress.   
 Yes.  
 That will be set out in the message.  
 Well, I think I have been on record 5 or 6 or 7 different times on that. Why don't you read the messages--letters and messages I sent on the subject to the Congress? That's all you need to know.  
 The message will speak for itself on that subject. It isn't finished yet.  
 No, I will not.  
 I can't answer that question. 
 No, they just bring luck. Somebody sent them to me.   
 The country has been on the gold standard all the time. We own more gold than any other government in the history of the world. 
 No, you can't; but then your dollar is backed by that gold backing. That's what makes it good.  
 I have it under consideration. 
 Yes.  
 I knew nothing about that procedure until I saw it in the paper.  
 I will go to New York on the 31st of July to review the Air Corps. That is not a political trip, however. Mr. Dewey will be there, too.  
 Well, we will have to set that out when the campaign plans have been made. They haven't been made yet.  
 I think the chances of world peace are good. They are as good as they have ever been. I am sure that we will get world peace eventually.  
 The message will speak for itself. You asked the question, and I say the message would speak for itself. 
 That is up to the Congress. I don't control that.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and fiftieth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m., on Thursday, July 22, 1948. 
