 Gentlemen, I have no particular announcements to make. If you have any questions, I will try to answer them.  
 Did you read the quotation in the paper, Smitty? 2
 Read it again. That will answer your question.  1 The reporter was referring to an exclusive interview that the President had granted to Arthur Krock, chief Washington correspondent of the New York Times, on February 14.  In his report of the interview, Mr. Krock quoted the President as having said that he would have sent Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson to Moscow in the fall of 1948 except for the political campaign then in progress and that perhaps he might send him on such a mission sometime in the future.  The text of the interview, as printed in the New York Times on February 15, is also published in the Congressional Record .  2 Merriman Smith of the United Press Associations. 
 Read it again. That will answer your question.  
 It was. 
 No, it does not.   May I say to you gentlemen right now-you seem to be in a kind of disgruntled mood this morning--that the President is his own free agent. He will see whom he pleases, when he pleases, and say what he pleases to anybody that he pleases. And he is not censored by you, or anybody else.  I have tried my best to be as courteous to you gentlemen as I possibly can be, and I expect to continue that. But I don't like your attitude this morning, so just cool off.  
 Of course you are not--of course you are not. 
 It is nothing of the kind. 
 It is nothing of the kind. 
 That's all right, but it's nothing of the kind. But I don't stand for anybody to edit my actions. I am a free agent, even if I am the President of the United States. 
 Yes, I intentionally omitted it. I could put it in, if you would like to have it.  
 What? 
 Put your question in, and I will edit it for you.  Now then, have you got any questions that I can answer sensibly? If you have, I will listen to them. 
 That remains to be seen. I will cross that bridge when I get to it.  
 No, I do not.  
 Sure. I will give you any information I can--that I am capable of. 
 It is a custom. I will continue that custom-- 
 --but I will do as I please with regard to breaking it.  
 That is the answer. You have the information. And I am not disgruntled in the slightest. 
 I am in as good a humor as I can possibly be, but I would like to answer some questions that have a bearing on the present situation. 
 Sometimes I am not so sure. 
 What is it? 
 I think I made a statement to this press conference sometime back that I was not dabbling in any Democratic primaries outside of the State of Missouri, but that after the primaries were over I will be willing to help the Democrats to win in any State in the Union. 
 That is along the same line. 
 No. Let's attend to that when we get to it. I will take you on a nonpolitical tour, one of these days, and I'll show you.   
 I beg your pardon?  3 Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner. See Item 39. 
 He will be at the dinner. 
 He will be at the dinner. At least, if the weather is good to fly in this morning he will be there. 
 That was yesterday, not today.  4 John H. Hendren, chairman, Missouri Democratic State Committee. 
 There is not--I don't know--you know, weather conditions change from day to day. I rather think he will be here.  
 I have no comment, for I haven't myself personally--I haven't read the treaty and don't know what it contains. I think Dean Acheson covered the matter very well yesterday. 5  5 The New York Times reported on February 16 that Secretary Acheson, in his press conference of February 15, had warned the Chinese people that their troubles with the Soviet Union had only begun with the signing of the Sino-Soviet Pact. The treaty of alliance between the two countries was signed in Moscow on February 15.  Secretary Acheson was quoted as saying that even if the full sum of the Soviet Union's promised economic aid--$300 million over a 5-year period--was forthcoming, it would be meager in comparison with the great economic needs of China. He further stated that the most significant features of the new agreements were probably covered by secret protocols that would never be made public, but that could be measured only by Russian conduct in China in the months and years to come.  
 If they want to buy a ticket, they are at liberty to buy one. I don't think their civil rights have been infringed upon in the slightest.  
 Well now, that is a matter that will have to be worked out by the Attorney General. That is not in my immediate department. I am not a criminal enforcement officer. I will take the advice of the Attorney General on the subject. 
 No. I never--it has never come up for consideration. 
 No. No, it has never come up for consideration. I think all sorts of lawlessness ought to be stopped by any measure that is possible to stop it. I think, in enforcing the Federal law, that we must always be careful that the civil rights part of the Constitution is not infringed upon. That is what I tried to make perfectly clear in my speech yesterday. 6    6 Item 37. 
 Well, that ought to be remedied. 
 Yes. That ought to be remedied. 
 That ought to be remedied, of course.  
 I have no comment to make on Mr. Churchill's statement. I have always said that the door is open here in Washington. Any time any head of state wants to come and visit me, he is welcome.  7 The New York Times reported on February 15 that former British Prime Minister Winston S. Churchill spoke at Usher Hall in Edinburgh, Scotland, on February 14. The Times quoted Mr. Churchill as stating that a new "top level" attempt to reach an agreement with the Soviet Union for the control of the atomic bomb and an end to the cold war should be instigated. 
 Yes. 
 That question I do not want to answer.  
 He drew that conclusion.   8 George  Luckey, vice chairman of the California Democratic State Committee. 
 He drew that conclusion.   
 I think the Government employee, when he is through with his Government work, can do anything he pleases that does not infringe upon the criminal law. I think he has the same rights as any other citizen of the United States, and if he hasn't he ought to have. 
 The Hatch Act is specific in that particular. You ought to read it very carefully. I am pretty familiar with the Hatch Act, for I was there when it passed, and I voted against section nine, which is the one to which this refers.  
 Yes, he did. Yes, he did. 
 Yes, and I hope he will.  
 Well, I don't want to comment on that, because that is a matter that is in the courts, and the courts will have to handle it.  
 That question will have to be--you will have to wait awhile for the correct answer to that question. 
 He wanted to know if Mr. Luckey drew the correct conclusion, and I told him you would have to wait awhile to see whether his conclusion was right or not.  
 I haven't read the brief, and I don't know what is in it, and I can't answer your question now any more than I could last week.  
 They brought me in a letter signed by both of them, and I referred it to the State Department.  9 William Green, president of the American Federation of Labor, and Philip Murray, president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations. 
 No. 
 I think the State Department answered that by saying there was not a word of truth in what the Senator said.  
 I am not familiar enough with it to comment on it. I don't think now is the proper time to press a thing of that sort. We have other things much more important right now.  
 What do you mean by that? The negotiating machinery in the United Nations and our Ambassadors in all the capitals of the world are always ready to discuss any questions with any state when they want to discuss them with us. The door has always been open. We have never walked out of any meetings. We have never used the veto power for the purpose of preventing peace in the world. Why don't you read a little history? Our doors are always open. We are ready to talk with anybody on any subject that will contribute to peace. I don't think it needs any showmanship to carry that through. 
 I don't think you should be astonished. Read it very carefully. It did not astonish anybody at the time.  
 No, I am not.  10 Robert N. Denham, General Counsel, National Labor Relations Board. 
 If I have the power to appoint, I have the power to dismiss, except if the law provides that it can't be done. You will find that is the decision of the courts all the way down. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and seventeenth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, February 16, 1950. 
