 Well, I called this press conference at the suggestion of Mr. Ross, because I thought you hadn't all had a chance to look me in the face or ask me any impertinent questions.  I haven't anything that you would break your arms to get out of the door for this morning.  If you have questions to ask me--   I have issued a proclamation setting aside Sunday as a day of prayer. After the 2 days' celebration I think we will need the prayer.   I am ready for any questions you have to ask. I will answer them if I can.  
 That is going to be up to the Congress. That Manhattan project product, in the long run, will be used for the welfare and benefit of the world instead of its destruction; and if Congress is willing to go along, we will continue the experiments to show how we can use that for peace instead of war. 
 The wheels are turning. I hope the Congress will want to go along.  
 Nearly every defeated people does that. That is natural. But I don't think they will have any chance at it. I don't think they will be able to implement it at all; at least, I hope not. 
 V-J will be declared by proclamation when the terms of surrender are signed and implemented. The surrender isn't complete. There are still two million Japs fully armed. 
 I think they have had their holidays. There is too much to do to declare too many holidays.  
 That's right. 
 Full employment is a "must."  
 It will be announced from General MacArthur's headquarters.  
 No, I haven't had any chance to get to anything but what we have been going through; but politics is open and free now.   
 There is nothing now. Experts are working on it, and when they get the figures ready, I will give them to you.  
 There was. I discussed the matter with Mr. Churchill and Mr. Attlee, and we are still discussing it. 
 No, there was nothing he could do about it. 
 No, I am not. 
 Yes, the Korean situation was discussed at Berlin, and the Korean program, I think, will be carried through as we anticipated-that it will be a free country.  
 I can't answer that. That is in the hands of the Allied Commander in Chief.  
 No, it was not discussed. 
 I have not. 
 No. 
 The occupation will depend entirely on how well the Germans rehabilitate themselves on the democratic way of life. 
 It certainly will. 
 Let this lady speak. 
 They have not. 
 No; it's like moving a circus to get me around the country, and I will stay at home.   
 That is a matter for the Secretary of State.  
 No, the War Labor Board will only continue as long as there is a necessity, which I think will be only a limited time.  
 Japan will be occupied under the Commander in Chief for the Allies. I don't think there will be any necessity for zones of occupation in Japan. Probably there will be troops from the Allies in the occupation areas.  
 That is a matter that Congress will have to decide. The draft is only temporarily continued for the need to get those soldiers who have been fighting discharged first. There is no reason why these young fellows who have nothing to do now should not replace the ones who have done the fighting so they can be discharged. The Congress will have to pass on that when they meet. 
 I am going to make recommendations to Congress on a universal military training program which is not peacetime conscription. 
 When Congress meets.  
 The Department of Labor.  
 No, that will be a new story I will give you later. I don't want to talk about it today.  
 If that is necessary, it will be done. The situation is entirely different in the Pacific.  
 The American view of Palestine is, we want to let as many of the Jews into Palestine as it is possible to let into that country. Then the matter will have to be worked out diplomatically with the British and the Arabs, so that if a state can be set up there they may be able to set it up on a peaceful basis. I have no desire to send 500,000 American soldiers there to make peace in Palestine. 
 I cannot answer that question. It will have to be decided later.  
 No, I don't want to discuss that this morning. I will discuss it at a later date.  
 No, there has been no discussion of it.  
 Yes, sometime after Congress meets.  
 Yes, they are--for the control of the civilian government. General MacArthur has been working on those plans right along with his military plans.  Joe Fox, Washington Star: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. Nice to have seen you all. Note: President Truman's nineteenth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:03 a.m. on Thursday, August 16, 1945. The White House Official Reporter noted that Guy Innes of the British Ministry of Infermation was the special guest at this conference. 
