  At 11 o'clock there will be a release--it is a simultaneous release in Britain, France, and Washington. It will be available at the door as you go out, together with a statement by the President. It is all mimeographed and ready for you. 1  I have no further statements to make to you.  1 See Items 147 and 148.  
 I know nothing about them and can make no statement until I see the Secretary of State. Voices: Can't hear--we can't hear.  THE PRESIDENT. I said I know nothing about them and I will make no statement on it until I have talked to the Secretary of State. 
 Not that I know of. 
 The question was what I knew about Mr. Lie's contributions to world peace, and I know nothing about them.  
 No. I cannot.  
 I heard something about it.  2 The editorial in the Washington Post of May 22, 1950, stated that the Capital was "convulsed by a terror" due to the fear of communism and uncertainty as to how to deal with it. It suggested a commission, appointed by the President after bipartisan agreement on its membership, "to survey the major aspects of national security--the internal menace of the fifth column, civilian defense, development of new weapons, the size and use of military expenditures, economic restoration of our friends and allies." 
 I have no comment, except that I see no reason for a supergovernment in the United States. I am trying to run the Government under the Constitution, and I shall continue to do that.   
 I was for the sesquicentennial when it first came up, and I have done everything I possibly can for it, and I shall continue to do that; but somebody else has to put it on. I can't go out on the street and put it on. 
 It's about time that the local businessmen wake up and find out what it's all about. 3  3 See Items 77, 137 .  
 No, I would not. 
 Wanted to know if I would accept a voluntary FEPC. I have got that now.  
 I do not right now intend to go into any phase of that situation. I have sent the reorganization plan to the Congress, and it was rejected. 4   I have other matters under consideration at the present time, and I will do nothing further about that at present.  4 Reorganization Plan 12 of 1950, providing for reorganization in the National Labor Relations Board, was disapproved by the Senate on May 1950 . See Item 66.  
 Well, the permanent board of the Maritime Commission has not yet been appointed, and we have a great many things under consideration. I can't answer that question right now.  5 On August 18, 1950, the Senate confirmed Raymond S. McKeough as a member of the International Claims Commission of the United States.  
 If he comes in and asks to see me, of course I will be glad to see him, as I will any other Democratic nominees. 
 I am not in a position to answer any questions like that.  
 I haven't had the matter up for consideration.  
 How long has the Nicaraguan Canal been under consideration? I was in Nicaragua, you know, about 10 years ago and looked at the site for the Nicaraguan Canal. It is a matter for conversation and probably will be for a long time to come.  
 The defense budget is under consideration at the present time, and I can't answer questions on it until we have gone into it more thoroughly. The ceiling has been placed upon it. 
 I can't give you an answer to the situation until all the facts and figures are in, and I will discuss it freely with you when we are ready. I can't do it now. 
 Sure.  
 I have no comment on that.  6 Ernest Bevin, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom. 
 There is a lady over here that wants to ask a question.  
 No. I won't see them. 
 No. 
 Sure.  
 I can't answer that question, I am sorry.  
 No, that is a matter that will have to be worked out in consideration of the budget, and when that time comes, I will discuss it with you.  7 Lee McCardell of the Baltimore Sun.  
 No, I can't.
 No.  
 No. When I get ready to make the announcement, I will make it publicly so that you can all have it at the same time. 8    8  On July 11, 1950, Gordon E. Dean was appointed Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.  
 I understand that they are both highly pleased with it, and if they are, of course I am, too.  
 That is a matter that is under consideration in the United Nations, and with our own setup in Germany, and I am not in a position to answer that question this morning.  
 I am going to hear Toscanini. If he wants to meet the President, he will have the same privilege that every other great musician that comes to that place over there has.  
 Miss Helen Traubel has answered that question completely and thoroughly. 9  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  9 On May 23 the New York Times reported that Helen Traubel, who was supervising Margaret Truman's musical education, had announced that upon her advice the President's daughter had canceled her singing engagements for that summer. Miss Traubel stated that she had advised Miss Truman to rest and devote herself to further study during the summer because she had just finished a spring tour and was anticipating a busy schedule in the fall. Note: President Truman's two hundred and twentysixth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, May 25, 1950. Motion pictures and still photographs were taken at the press conference. 
