 Well, the press made its own announcements this morning, so I have no special announcements to make at this time, but I will try to answer questions.  
 I have no comment to make on that at this time.  
 The Budget Message stands as written. Dr. Nourse was invited to the meeting and to speak to them as an economist, which is what he did, and he had a perfect right to do that. There are things which have been taken out of the context in the Doctor's speech and distorted, so if you read the Doctor's speech you will get a different idea. 
 When the time comes to take care of that situation, I will meet it. 1   1 See Item 163. 
 I have no further comment to make on that. I have answered the question thoroughly and completely.  
 I have no comment to make on that. There is an argument on between them on that subject, and that is a matter for them to settle, not for me.  2 Council of Economic Advisers.  
 I saw that on the front page of the Star, and-- 
--I have no comment to make on it. 
 No, I have not. 3   3 Vice Adm. Alan G. Kirk was appointed by the President to be Ambassador to the Soviet Union on April 20, 1949. His appointment was confirmed by the Senate on May 20, 1949.  
 Just as soon as I receive it, It will go down to the Senate promptly. It hasn't come over yet from the State Department. 
 Shoot.  
 I always say the first 4 years are the hardest.   
 No, I can't. Just as soon as we are ready, I will let you know. 
 It is under consideration by the Budget, by State, and by the defense forces.  
 I don't know. I can't answer that question.  
 I am not familiar with it, and I never comment on legislation until it is on my desk.  
 They do not need clarification. If you will read it, it was quoted verbatim in nearly all the papers. The New York Times published it in full, and if you will read it carefully it needs no comment whatever. It is perfectly clear and explains itself.  4  See Item 70.  
 Yes I am. I hope they will have a successful one.  5 See Item 79. 
 I didn't know about that. 
 Yes, I am interested in that. 
 They want to know if I was interested in the sesquicentennial celebration here in Washington, and I said I was interested in it.  
 No, I didn't know they had killed the appropriation. Of course, an appropriation is never killed until it has passed both Houses. 
 I think I have said much as is necessary on that subject, and my position hasn't changed.  
 The statement 6  that Secretary Brannan offered to Congress speaks for itself, and I know exactly what is in it, and it's all right. That's all the comment I have to make on it.  6 The statement made by Secretary Brannan on April 7, at a joint hearing of the House Committee on Agriculture and the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, is printed in the Congressional Record .  
 I can't answer that question, because they haven't talked to me.  7 Ernest Bevin, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, and Robert Schuman, Minister of Foreign Affairs of France. 
 At their request? No, I invited them to come call on me. It's a matter of courtesy.  
 No, I cannot.  
 No. If that matter came up, it would be considered as a separate matter. That's what the Budget Message said, if I remember correctly. 
 The situation hasn't changed. 
 That's right.  
 Oh, I don't know. Some commentator. They are always doing that. I can't even name them. 
 I don't know.  
 No, I do not.  
 I can't answer that question until it is worked out with the budget. 
 I can't answer the question, I say. 
 I have no comment to make on that. I haven't read General Bradley's speech, and that may be out of context, too. 
 I have no comment to make on it.  
 Well, I will say what Mr. Ross said, Joe is not losing ground.   Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  8  Joseph A. Fox of the Washington Star. Note: President Truman's one hundred and seventy fifth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4 p.m. on Thursday, April 7, 1949. 
