  Well, the Navy clock  1  was on time this time, so I am on time.   Please be seated.   1  See item 136 .  I want to express my appreciation for the attendance of the NATO editors. I hope they will enjoy the conference, and I hope they will also enjoy their entire visit here in this country, and get some information that will be of value to them.   There has been some discussion about the arrival of General Eisenhower. As soon as he gets through with the "One More Club" down at the airport, he is going to come up to the White House and pay his courtesy call on the President and make his report to me.  Any questions you want to ask? I will try to answer them if I can. 
 It will be in my study in the White House. 
 Yes. 
 Yes 
 --yes, I expect to see him again. What do you want, Duke?   2    2  Duke Shoop of the Kansas City Star. 
 Oh yes, I will see him on Monday. 
 Yes. Unless you fellows want some more information.  
 I am going to vote for the Attorney General when it comes my time to vote. I am taking no personal interest in the primary or any activity in it, but I shall support "Buck" Taylor.   3   J.E. Taylor, Attorney General of Missouri, and W. Smart Symington, former Administrator of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, were both candidates in the Democratic primary in Missouri. 
 Yes, J. E. Taylor. Everybody calls him "Buck."  
 I have not read the speech, and the veto message covers that very ground. You read the message  5  and you won't have to ask me that question.   4  Volume 98, page 6190.   5  See Item 146. 
 You read the message. 
 Then you won't have to ask any comment from me. That covers it. 
 You shouldn't be. Read it carefully. If you understand English you can't be puzzled.  
 What? 
 I think I made myself perfectly clear three different times, if you will hunt up those comments. 
 No, I have said enough. I will attend to the rest of it when the bill gets to me.  6    6  On June 20, 1952, the President approved the Mutual Security Act of 1952 .  
 That's right. 
 No, no, I was asked if I was going to see him again, and I said yes. 
 That's right. 
 I don't know what time. He has got a tremendous number of engagements before he leaves town. Whenever it is convenient, I will see him--if it is necessary for me to see him, I will see him.  
 No. I saw a picture in the paper of a kangaroo that was purported to be on its way here.  7  I thought maybe I would give it to the press conference.    7  The 14-month-old albino kangaroo, the only one in captivity, was a gift from Australia to the people of the United States.  Joseph H. Short : Well, Mr. President, I have been neglectful. I haven't kept you up to date on the kangaroo. I'm sorry, sir.  THE PRESIDENT. I saw about it in the paper. 
 I haven't seen the kangaroo. I don't know whether it's a lady or a gentleman. I will have to wait and find out.  
 I cannot comment on it until I have had an interview with Dean Acheson.  
 No, I don't think any such thing. And I didn't say any such thing, and I didn't imply any such thing.   8  See Item 143. 
 Its clear. 
 I didn't say that. I didn't say anything like that. When I get ready to make a power speech, it will be perfectly plain to you. I am not going to make the speech here now for you, so you will just have to wait. 
 You read it again. I didn't make any such statement as you are trying to imply.  
 I didn't read the Prime Minister's speech or remarks, and I do not care to comment on that situation, as I said awhile ago, until I have a chance to discuss the matter with the Secretary of State. And he will be here Monday--maybe tomorrow-I don't know.  Mr. Short: Tomorrow morning.  THE PRESIDENT. Tomorrow morning, says Joe.  
 There are certain things that must be done no matter how long it takes, and I hope they will get them done before it is time for them to go to the conventions.  
 I have no comment to make on that. My action speaks for itself.  
 Wednesday at seven ? 
 I didn't know it. I hadn't heard about it. I usually watch the television show, particularly watch it when Margaret is on. 
 She is going to be on Thursday.   
 Well, I was just discussing the historical disappearance of Presidential papers and discussing with them the best manner in which those papers and documents should be taken care of. They are going to furnish me with a memorandum as soon as they have a chance to discuss the matter among themselves.  
 No. No, I will attend to that when the time comes, and I am not making any statements now because the Congress has plenty of time to act, and there's no use talking about it until they don't act. Then I will talk about it. 
 I am still for statehood and doing everything I can to get it through. 
 Both. Both. She mentioned both of them. I am for both of them and always have been.  
 Yes. The papers of Abraham Lincoln were scattered from one end of the country to the other, and that has happened in the case of a great many Presidents, all of whom I can't name here, but I have the list over at the office. And we have got a bill through the Congress authorizing the Archives to take charge of the Presidential papers, and also state papers of all the other officials of the Government, and see that they are available for future use for the Presidents and for historians.  9    9  Federal Records Act of 1950 .  
 Bill Boyle comes to see me whenever he feels like it. He is one of my best friends. He just came in to pay me a courtesy call. Had a very pleasant talk with him, too.   10  William M. Boyle, Jr., former chairman of the Democratic National Committee. 
 Oh, he comes in every once in a while.  
 No. I don't expect to name any candidates. The Democratic convention is going to do that.  
 NO, not a library in Independence. I hope to have an archives building in the nature of the Hyde Park arrangement, under the control of the Federal Government, and in its possession. 
 I am contemplating a site about 9 miles south of Kansas City. 
 Yes,  
 I think probably I will answer that on the whistlestop campaign. 
 Well, I am not ready yet. I am going to give you plenty of time to pack your grips so you will be all right. That has to be done by invitation, you know. I am not a candidate this year.  Q. Yes sir. We understand that, sir. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's three hundred and sixth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 29, 1952. 
