  Byron Price has agreed to go to Germany in an advisory capacity on public relations. He is going with the approval of General Eisenhower and General Clay, and I am very happy that he is going, because I think he can be a great deal of help to that situation over there.   In yesterday's report which I handed to you I did not know at the time, because I hadn't had time to read it completely myself, that there had been some aspersions cast on Cordell Hull. I want to agree fully and completely with Secretary Stimson on what he said about Cordell Hull.   Ambassador Pauley this afternoon will hold a press conference at 3 p.m. on the reparations situation. I think it will be right interesting and instructive to those of you who are interested in reparations.  Now if there are any questions--  
 I don't know; if General de Gaulle returns to Washington I may see him.  
 Things come back to haunt you!  
 Apparently, according to this report, it was not a statement of fact. I was speaking with the best information I had at the time. 
 No, no reason except that there was so much conversation about it; there was no ulterior motive to it. 
 I am not. The matter has not been brought up to me. I don't think I have authority to order a court-martial. I think it has to go through a form of procedure set up by Congress. 
 If they want it, I have no objection to it. I want everybody to be fairly treated. 
 Perfectly satisfactory to me. 
 I will not put a muzzle on them. 
 I don't. I don't think Representative May read the report.  If you read them very carefully, they are not a "whitewash." 
 I am still in favor of unity of command, and always have been.  
 She was in to pay her respects before returning to China. We had a very pleasant visit on the situation in the Far East. She was very happy over the Russian-Chinese treaty, just as all of us are.  
 I don't remember receiving any such petition.  
 I can't give you the details on that. The plans are being studied and worked on. As soon as the British representatives come here from Great Britain I think we will work out a plan that will be satisfactory to all concerned. 
 That's the present plan. 
 I can't tell you, because I haven't the figures.  
 He is my representative.  
 I hope Senator Maybank will stay in the Senate. He is a very excellent Senator. 
 No, I didn't. He has never discussed the matter with me.  
 He hasn't made up his mind, and I would rather not discuss it until he does.  
 I wasn't here then. 
 I have read it very carefully, and I came to the conclusion that the whole thing is the result of the policy which the country itself pursued. The country was not ready for preparedness. Every time the President made an effort to get a preparedness program through Congress, it was stifled. Whenever the President made a statement about the necessity of preparedness, he was vilified for doing it. I think the country is as much to blame as any individual in this final situation that developed in Pearl Harbor. 
 Yes.  
 Oh, they just wanted an expert's advice, and when Price's job ceased over here, they asked that Price give us the benefit of his experience and advice. 
 Everything that has to do with public relations. 
 And to the United States also.  
 I only know what I see in the report. 
 It might--it might. I have no objection to a courtmartial, but I don't intend to order one. 
 Only that there is still some information that should not be divulged that has nothing to do with the Pearl Harbor situation. It is the system by which we get information. We need that source of information now as we needed it then.  1 The report "Attack Upon Pearl Harbor by Japanese Armed Forces" of the Commission appointed by President Roosevelt and headed by Associate Justice Owen J. Roberts is printed in Senate Document 159 . 
 They have been promoted; one is a lieutenant and the other a sergeant, I think. 
 Is he? I didn't know that.  
 Yes, I do. I will let you know about it when I get it ready.  
 State, FEA, and War Department.  
 I don't think they ever will be.  2 Chapter V of the report of the Army Pearl Harbor Board  was omitted in accordance with the Secretary of War's statement of that date, which the President also released. The missing 52 pages were made public by Secretary of War Patterson on October 5, 1945. 
 For the reason I just told you; there are sources of information to be protected.  
 The Generalissimo would like very much to see me, and I would like very much to see him, but no definite plans were made for a visit either way.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's twenty-second news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10 a.m. on Thursday, August 30, 1945. The White House Official Reporter noted that the following special guests attended this conference: Secretary of State James F. Byrnes, Fleet Admiral William D. Leahy, and Mrs. Alfred  Burns, a reporter on the Boston Globe who was writing a special story on the President. 
