 Please be seated.  I have two or three announcements here that I would like to make, before we start off. You will find a mimeographed copy of this first one outside, when we get through.    "Ambassador Austin  1  has fully and forcefully presented the views of this Government on our attitude toward aggression by the Chinese Communists. These views have the solid support of the Executive, the Congress, and the people of the United States.  1 Ambassador Warren R. Austin, U.S. Representative to the United Nations.  "Each member of the United Nations must make its own decision on this issue. For my part, I believe in calling an aggressor an aggressor. The question of what can and should be done about the aggression in Korea, of course, must be discussed with all other friendly nations.  "Obviously this is no time for rash or unwise action. This is a time for clear thinking and firmness.  "Let me stress again that the American resolution contains--as all our proposals have contained--a method for bringing about a cease-fire, and opening the way for peaceful settlement of outstanding issues."   And I want to announce the appointments on the Commission of which Admiral Nimitz is the Chairman. 2  2 The President's Commission on Internal Security and Individual Rights .  The Reverend Karl Morgan Block, Episcopal Bishop of California--
 K -- K-a-r-l -- Morgan B-l-o-c-k. 
 Episcopal Bishop of California. You will have to learn to write shorthand.   Senator John A. Danaher of Connecticut and Washington. Harvey Firestone, Jr. 3  3 Chairman and chief executive of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Co.  William E. Leahy, lawyer here in Washington who is head of the Selective Service-he is head, I believe, still, of the Selective Service. 4  4 Director of Selective Service for the District of Columbia, 
 I don't know. I suppose Ohio.  Joseph Short : Akron, Ohio.  THE PRESIDENT. I imagine so. 
 L-e-a-h-y--William E.  Charles H. Silver, vice president of the American Woolen Co. of New York.  Q- What was that last name again, Mr. President?  THE PRESIDENT. Charles H. Silver. 
 Vice president of the American Woolen Company--not the American Woolen Mills, it's Company. American Woolen Company. Anna Lord Strauss. 
 L-o-r-d.  I will have to get Bill Hassett 5  to tell you his sightseeing story in New York.  5  William D. Hassett, Secretary to the President. 
 S-t-r-a-u-s-s--two s's. She is former president of the League of Women Voters.  The Reverend Emmet M. Walsh, Coadjutor Bishop of Youngstown, Ohio. 
 Rev. Emmet M. Walsh, Coadjutor Bishop of Youngstown, Ohio. I don't believe he's a Presbyterian though.   Russell C. Leffingwell, former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and a former partner of Morgan and Co. 
 L-e-f-f-i-n-g-w-e-l-1.  
 Former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and a former Morgan partner.   General Eisenhower will return Wednesday from his tour of the countries belonging to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. That same day he will report to me, to a special meeting of the Cabinet, and to a standing group of the NATO. On Thursday and Friday he will make further reports to the Congress. His radio report to the Nation is scheduled for Friday night. The schedule will be mimeographed and handed out to you as soon as it is ready. 
 Wednesday. 
 Thursday and Friday--he will report to me on Wednesday, and the Cabinet--and then he will report to the .  Mr. Short: This will all be available, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. This will all be available at the door, Joe says, so you won't have to worry about it.  
 Mrs. Strauss is to be the vice chairman. 
 Yes. Anna Lord Strauss. I guess she is Mrs. -- I don't know. Mr. Short: Miss.  THE PRESIDENT. Miss, Joe says. I am mistaken. It is Miss Anna Lord Strauss. I beg her pardon.   "The Federal Budget in Brief" will be ready tomorrow. 6 Now you can start in with your questions, if you have any.  6  "The Federal Budget in Brief, Fiscal Year 1952" . 
 It is a little book about that thick--[indicating]. You can analyze the budget and you can't make a mistake if you read it carefully, and it covers the whole thing from cover to cover. It is a big book, too, but it is a little book.  
 I think Senator Ferguson is slightly mistaken in his statement, and I don't care to comment on the rest of it.  7 For the statement made on the floor of the Senate by Senator Homer Ferguson of Michigan, see the Congressional Record, vol. 97, p. 680. 
 No. You make it out yourself. 
 Well, Senator Ferguson is trying to make something political out of it, but I am not. 
 I will-I think you had better read the Executive order on it. think that is covered in the Executive order, if I am not mistaken. 8  8 Executive Order 10207, "Establishing the President's Commission on Internal Security and Individual Rights" .  
 I will appoint the Commissioner as soon as I am ready, and I will let you know right away. 9    9 The term of District of Columbia Commissioner Guy Mason expired February 3, 1951. He served until March 9, 1951, and was succeeded by F. Joseph Donohue on March 12.  
 I don't think the country is anywhere near disaster.  
 What is it you are trying to get me to deny? I never deny anything.  
 I will deny nothing.   I think that the thing you are trying to drive at is that the price control laws are going to require some legislative amendments to make them complete. And as soon as Mr. Wilson 10  is ready with those amendments, he will go down and ask for them.  10  Charles E. Wilson, Director, Office of Defense Mobilization. 
 It will be made by Mr. Wilson, with my approval. 
 You are running out of soap? 
 I have no comment on that. I haven't seen the bill, and I know nothing about it. I didn't ask for that in the first place, if you will remember. 
 I don't think we should get into an argument over that. I spent a year and a half trying to get the Congress to pay itself higher salaries. If they want to "ball" themselves up, that's all right, that's their business, but they can't do that to me while I am in office. 11  11 The Revenue Act of 1951, approved October 20, 1951 , removed the tax exemption provision relating to the expense allowances of the President, the Vice President, the Speaker, and Members of Congress, effective in January 1953.  
 The Senate committee has a right to work on anything that the Senate itself authorizes them to do. I have no comment in that particular case. 
 Had nothing to do--had nothing to do with it whatever.  
 With whom? 
 No. I can't comment on that now.  
 It is in the Budget Message, May. 12  It has already been asked for.  12  Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. 
 No, that is up to Congress to write its own bill--which it usually does. 
 Yes, it has always been. That ought to take care of potatoes, too, May, I think.  
 No. No, I don't intend to. I don't intend to investigate investigating committees. I am only trying to meet it on the basis of a program which will be fair to all concerned. 
 They might examine the hearings of an investigating committee, but they are not investigating an investigating committee. 
 On exactly the same basis. 
 That's right. 
 That is it exactly. 
 They will ask me about it, and I will give them permission to see it. 
 I don't remember whether I did or not. I would have-- 
 I would have, if they had asked for it. I can't remember whether I did or not. 
 I don't think there is any. 
 Oh, yes they did. They had all the full files they asked for in the Tydings investigation, and in several other instances they have had the same privilege. But they have had to ask me for them, and I have to authorize them to see them. That is the formality they have to go through. 13  13 In November and December 1950, the Senate Committee on Armed Services, with Senator Millard E. Tydings of Maryland as chairman, held hearings on the nomination of Anna M. Rosenberg to be Assistant Secretary of Defense. With the President's permission, the FBI file on Mrs. Rosenberg was made available to a subcommittee of the Tydings committee. The nomination was confirmed by the Senate on December 21, 1950. 
 That's right. 
 That's right. Reporter: Well, thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fifty-third news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, January 25, 1951.  For availability of investigating agency files in other cases, see 1950 volume, this series, Item 79 and note. 
