  I have an announcement to make.  We have appointed an economic survey mission to go to the Philippines as soon as it can make the arrangements.  It is headed by the Honorable Daniel W. Bell, president of the American Security and Trust Co. of Washington and former Under Secretary of the Treasury; and by Gen. Richard I. Marshall, president of the Virginia Military Institute.  And as soon as the appointment of the mission is completed, why they will leave for the Philippines as promptly as possible.  This mission was appointed at the request of the Philippine President. He made that request of me when he was here on his visit.  And we have had some difficulty in finding the people to head the mission, and in ironing out some differences between the various departments of the Government. Everything has been ironed out now, and that mission will go to work. That's all the announcements I have to make.  \. Never was any differences. Never has been.  1 See Item 173.  \. No, I did not.  \. Can't answer that question, for I don't know.  I intended to tell you that there will be a statement on this Philippine situation which will be handed to you when you go out. 2    2  See Item 180.  I can't answer your question, because I don't know.  \. My idea in issuing the statement and the orders preliminary to the issuance of the statement was that it is a move in favor of peace. If I hadn't thought that, I would have taken other steps. \. Well, only that most of the members of the United Nations are in full accord with what we are doing. \. We are not at war. \. No comment on that. \. No comment.  \. Why not? It wouldn't take 10 minutes to do what they have got to do and vote yes and no. \. Certainly do. \. No, I have not.  \. Yes, I am. I want to see a Democrat Governor in California, and I told him I hoped he would be elected, and that I would do anything I could to help him get elected.  \. Ask that question again. I didn't hear you. \. I haven't talked to Mr. Pauley, if that is what you asked me.  \. I can't understand it, because Mr. Pike has been one of the ablest members of that Commission, and one of its most faithful members. I think the Atomic Energy Committee should take another look at it, and another vote.  \. Yes, I will allow you to use that. We are not at war. \. The Republic of Korea was set up with the United Nations help. It is a recognized government by the members of the United Nations. It was unlawfully attacked by a bunch of bandits which are neighbors of North Korea. The United Nations Security Council held a meeting and passed on the situation and asked the members to go to the relief of the Korean Republic.  And the members of the United Nations are going to the relief of the Korean Republic to suppress a bandit raid on the Republic of Korea. \. Yes. That is exactly what it amounts to.  \. I think that the political statement of Mr. Taft at this time is entirely uncalled for.  3 The text of Senator Robert A. Taft's remarks is printed in the Congressional Record . \. Yes. \. Uncalled for. That is correct. \. Not a word of truth in that, and you can put that in quotes, too.  Ask the question again, and I will give you the answer. \. I say there isn't a word of truth in that.   \. I was very friendly to Doctor Graham. 4    4 On June 24 Willis Smith defeated Senator Frank P. Graham in a special primary election for North Carolina's Democratic senatorial nomination \. Surely I would. I would vote the Democratic ticket no matter where I should happen to be.  \. No comment. They discussed several things besides the Mexican loan, and I have no comment on the visit. It was a friendly visit, at my request. Which Tony had the floor?  5    5 Ernest B.  Vaccaro of the Associated Press responded. Anthony H. Leviero of the New York Times was also present \. The question was what was the cause of the visit of the Export-Import Bank Directors to the President, and was the Mexican loan discussed. A great many subjects were discussed. It was a friendly visit by the Directors on the President, at his request. No pressure was being put on them for anything.  \. I beg your pardon? \. That is correct. That is correct. \. They are neighbors of South Korea.  \. I am very happy, of course. I was sure that India would do that.  \. Yes.  \. I am very happy about that. I knew about it yesterday, and I am very happy that it took place.  \. I can't comment on that. \. I can't comment on that.  \. NO comment. I have not been officially notified of it. I heard about it, but I have not been officially notified of it.  \. Sure--that's what the program is for.  \. That has not come to my attention, but I am glad they did that.  \. I don't believe that bill is ready for comment yet. When it comes to he, then I will comment on it.  \. Certainly--certainly not.  6 Frank Bourgholtzer of the National Broadcasting Company. \. Tony, 7  you're getting so you can't hear.   7 Ernest B. Vaccaro of the Associated Press. \. There is no doubt that the program will be to maintain the Korean Republic. The Republic of Korea I think is the proper name.  \. Well, it has been speeded up all the time. It will be carried on in the same expeditious manner in which it has always been carried on.  8 W. Stuart Symington, Chairman of the National Security Resources Board. \. What's that?\. Not a thing in the world. Symington has a session with me twice a week, for 30 minutes each time, as did Doctor Steelman when he was running the same organization.  \. No comment will be made on any matter of strategy. I don't expect to comment on any matter of strategy. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's two hundred and twentyninth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, June 29, 1950. 
