 Please be seated.   I have one announcement to make. I am appointing George J. Bott of Maryland General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board. Q- What's his last name?  THE PRESIDENT. B-o-t-t. Mr. Bott has been serving as Associate General Counsel on that Board since 1948. He has been with the organization since 1947. It's a promotion for him. That's all the announcements I have to make.  \. The book speaks for itself. I have no comment to make on it.  1 "The Man of Independence," J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia, 1950. \. I have no comment to make on it, Bert, 2  and I don't intend to be drawn into any discussion of it.  2 Bert Andrews of the New York Herald Tribune. \. Yes.  You are at liberty--you are at liberty. \. No comment.  \. No comment.  You see, I was ahead of you on that one. I knew what you were going to do.  \. I am very happy about it, and I hope that situation will wind up with a peace that will be satisfactory to everybody.  3 During the week, Seoul, the capital of the Republic of Korea, had been recaptured from the Communist North Korean forces. \. Mr. Bradley is exactly correct. He is remembering the results after the First World War and the results after the Second World War, as I am. We can't let our guard down, and shouldn't. \. No, I have not. I have no information at all. \. No. No. \. That is a matter I can't answer publicly now. \. I will give you the answer at the proper time. We haven't reached the 38th parallel yet. \. General MacArthur is under direct orders of the President and the Chief of Staff, and he will follow those orders. \. I can't answer the question.  What was it the gentleman back there had?  \. I can't answer that question at present. The matter is not settled, by any means, and we have a tremendous job ahead of us, in addition to that, in our preparations for defense.  \. That matter is under study. The matter is under study. \. Price controls. \. Same thing. Same answer.  \. That is correct. \. That is correct, but the United Nations will have to act on it first. I appointed General MacArthur as the Supreme Commander, at the request of the United Nations. They have certainly requested--will make a request of me, if they wanted further orders issued to General MacArthur. \. The original United Nations resolution was very broad.  \. General Eisenhower is always at my request and call whenever I want him. I have not considered anybody for anything as yet because there is nothing to consider him for. 3a    3a See Items 308 and 310.  \. You mean the broadcast asking them to surrender? \. It hasn't been taken up with me. The broadcast of General MacArthur--I think made today--was taken up with me, inviting them to surrender. I think he is making that broadcast today. You will have to consider that off the record, however, until General MacArthur makes the broadcast. 4 \. Well, you will have to wait for General MacArthur's broadcast, and then I will comment on that and answer your question. \. There will be a sincere effort to block the whole thing, as there always is, but I hope that it will not be successful. \. Not a bit. But it takes money to do those things, and the money has to be appropriated by the Congress.  \. Bill Boyle will be back on the job in a week or two, just as good as ever. 5    5  William M. Boyle, Jr., underwent an appendectomy on September 23.  \. The bipartisan foreign policy has always been on that basis, and there has been no change in it whatever. I have always appointed just as many Republicans in the United Nations setup as I have Democrats. In fact, I think a few more.  \. No. I haven't given that any thought. \. I haven't given it any thought.  6  See Item 209 . \. I haven't had time. I have been reading reports on bills stacked up about that high  most every night, and it takes me until midnight to get through when I read the reports.  \. It has been very good. I think they believed what I said was a fact.  7 See Item 254. \. No, I can't. No use commenting on it because you always get the usual number of letters and telegrams every time a White House document is put out, and we have had a flock of letters and telegrams on that, and they have all been favorable, most of them. \. I shall enforce the law as it is on the books. That is what I am sworn to do. \. It certainly would endanger security, and as Commander in Chief of the United States Armed Forces, and for security reasons, I will not be in any hurry about publishing that list. I hope to be able to take it up with the Congress and have it repealed.  \. I have made no proposals on Korea, so I can't answer your question. \. Yes, that is correct--until he makes it. \. I think some time today, isn't it, Charlie? 8 Mr. Ross: I think it is today.  THE PRESIDENT. I think it is today. I think he is going to make it today, and then you can get the release of it from the State Department.  8 Charles G. Ross, Secretary to the President.  \. Where it usually comes from. Haven't you been here when the Congress has been in session? How long have you been in this town?  We had terrific opposition in the very last session on it.  \. Well, what do you mean by that, Miss May? 9    9 Mrs. May Craig of the Portland  Press Herald. \. It wasn't necessary. It was not necessary. \. I certainly do. That is the discretionary power of the President. If he doesn't feel like the money should be spent, I don't think he can be forced to spend it. How would you go about making him spend it, Miss May?  \. Of course you do. I don't.  I think they are equal--I think they are equal. The Congress's job is to make the laws, and the President's job is to carry them out and enforce them, and he does just that. \. That's right--that's right. I thought you were an economist. You come from Maine.  Do you belong to the economy bloc? \. It is your money. Don't you pay taxes, May?\. All right. Then it is your money. \. Sure. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and fortyfirst news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 4 p.m. on Thursday, September 28, 1950. 
