  The first thing I want to do to you is to read the rules.  "News emanating from the President's conferences with the press will continue to be divided in categories already known to you, and in keeping with the practice of President Roosevelt's news meetings with the press.  "These categories are: first, off the record, confidential announcements which are to be kept secret by the newspapermen attending the conferences and not passed on by them to outsiders.  "Background--or not for attribution--information which may be given to the press for its guidance and use, the source of which cannot be published nor disclosed. In other words, it cannot be attributed to the President.  "News information which may be attributed to the President, when it is given to the press by the President at his conferences, but which cannot be directly quoted.  "Statements by the President cannot be directly quoted, unless he gives special permission."   Now, I have asked Mr. Early and Mr. Hassett, Mr. Daniels and Judge Rosenman, and they have offered to stay and help me get things organized, for which I am very grateful. And my staff will stand the training with those gentlemen.  I have asked Mr. Connelly to be my Confidential Secretary. Mr. Reinsch is going to help me with press and radio affairs. 
 Matthew J. Connelly. 
 Leonard Reinsch. Connelly spells it the Irish way.  
 How is that? 
 R-e-i-n-c-h--S-c-h--there's an S in there. I forgot the S. 
 He has been a radio executive for Governor Cox. Mr. Connelly has been with me all the time. Mr. Reinsch was connected with the National Committee during the last campaign as the radio expert for the National Committee. So I got acquainted with him. And he is efficient, I will tell you that. And so is Mr. Connelly. So are all these other gentlemen. That is no reflection on anybody, you understand?    I received a communication from Mrs. Roosevelt which I want to read to you. You will be given a mimeographed copy of it as you go out. This is dated April 16, 1945.  "My dear Mr. President:  "There have been many thousands of letters, telegrams and cards sent to me and my children which have brought great comfort and consolation to all of us. This outpouring of affectionate thought has touched us all deeply and we wish it were possible to thank each and every one individually.  "My children and I feel, in view of the fact that we are faced with the paper shortage and are asked not to use paper when it can be avoided, that all we can do is to express our appreciation collectively. We would therefore consider it a great favor if you would be kind enough to express our gratitude for us.  "Sincerely, Eleanor Roosevelt."   Now, there has been some question as to where I stand on various things, particularly Bretton Woods.  And I am for it. We need an international monetary setup. And I would have supported that proposition had I stayed in the Senate, and I would have done everything I possibly could as Vice President to help the President get it through the Senate.  I am for it all the way. I hope that is plain enough. 
 It includes the program as sent to the Congress by the President. That is as plain as I can make it.  And I believe that's all.  If you want to ask me anything, I will try to answer; and if I don't know, I will tell you.  
 Yes. That was the other thing I wanted to mention. 
 I am for the reciprocal trade agreements program. Always have been for it. I think you will find in the record where I stood before, when it was up in the Senate before, and I haven't changed.  
 You mean the Johnson Act now pending for repeal? 
 Well, that is a matter I will have to look into and study. I haven't given it any thought. I can't answer that question at this time. I will answer it for you later.  
 Wherever it is possible and necessary, I am. 
 I am not discussing appointments this morning of any sort. I am--when it comes to me to meet that situation, I will meet it; and you will know about it. 
 I think I made a speech in New Orleans endorsing the Missouri Valley Authority. I advise you to read that speech.  
 I will give you some advice. All you need to do is to read the Senate record of one Harry S. Truman.  
 I don't want to discuss that this morning.  
 There is not. 
 I shall probably welcome the delegates by an opening statement, when they arrive for their first meeting. 
 Yes. 
 I have a competent delegation going to San Francisco to negotiate and represent the interests of the United States. I shall back them up from this desk right here--[knocking on it]--where I belong.  
 Yes, I do. 
 Yes. He is going to stop by and pay his respects to the President of the United States. He should. 
 I have told you--I have already told you exactly what I said to them.  
 He will not. Mr. Byrnes is going back to South Carolina, and when I need his advice I shall send for him. 
 I have not.  
 I should be very happy to meet them, and General Chiang Kai-shek also. And General de Gaulle; if he wants to see me I will be glad to see him. I would like to meet all of the Allied heads of governments. 
 I have not.  
 There was another announcement I wanted to make. It was about these press conferences. Due to the fact that I have such a terrific burden to assume, I am going to have only one press conference a week. I shall have one in the morning and one in the afternoon--turnabout--week about. And I shall have that press conference on the days in the middle of the week as soon as I think I have something to say, or news to give out; and you will be notified, in plenty of time so that you can come right down here Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday of each week; but I am not setting any specific day nor any specific hour, but to say that one will be in the morning and the next one will be in the afternoon.  
 Beg your pardon? 
 I would rather not answer that question at this time. Mrs. Roosevelt is having her last meeting with the ladies of the press on Thursday, and that question will be answered at a later date.  
 Say it again, so that they can hear it.  
 I do not intend to lift the ban.  
 No, I cannot. That is not a matter for discussion here. It will be discussed at the proper time.  
 No. Of course, I asked the Cabinet to remain. That is as much as I want to say. 
 Let this fellow have a chance back here. You're in the front row.   
 I think they have done a lot of good for the morale all over the country, and I have no intention of pushing Mr. Byrnes' office.  Somebody over here?  
 Let's wait for V-E Day to come, and I will take care of the situation at that time.  Now, what was your question? I beg your pardon, the lady wants to ask a question.   
 I don't want to discuss that at this conference. Now, what was your question?  Q. It has been asked, sir.   Q. Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's first news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, April 17, 1945. 
