 I have no statements for you this morning, so if you want to ask questions, I will try to answer them.  \. About campaign plans--I can give you a few details. I expect to be in Des Moines--Dexter, just outside Des Moines--on the 18th and in Denver on the 20th; and several other Colorado cities: Colorado Springs, Glenwood Springs, Pueblo--. \. Pueblo--Glenwood Springs. Then from there to Salt Lake City \. The 20th--we will be in Denver on the 20th, and I think Salt Lake City the 21st or 22d. And then San Francisco the day after Salt Lake City. Salt Lake City will be a night meeting, and then Los Angeles. That is as far as the details have been worked out. As soon as we get it worked out, we will give them to you at once. \. It hasn't been decided yet. It's under consideration. All I can give you definitely is that we will go to Los Angeles. \. I think so. \. I can't give you the exact details on that. lust as soon as we get them worked out, we will give them to you. I'd hoped to have them ready this morning, to give you the details. In a day or two I will have it. \. Yes, I am going there Saturday night--go down to Independence Saturday night, and leave there, I think, Sunday afternoon sometime, and go to Denver. I shall be home that night. \. Well, that is not unusual.  Of course, that will be up to them. I will try to give you the exact details on the whole thing as soon as I get it. \. Tentatively only, and I would rather give them to you definitely in a day or two. \. I think so. I think it is the 21st. \. I cannot. I will have to give you details on these things a little later. It has been very difficult to get this worked out, because everybody wants you to stop everywhere at the same time, and you can't do that very well. \. Around the--I think 7th or 10th of October. \. Yes, somewhere along there. \. All one trip.  \. I have no comment.  \. I can't answer that question. As soon as I get it definitely worked out, I will let you know. I can't give you any further than Los Angeles definitely. \. Just as quickly as it is ready.  Mr. Ross: The schedule says the 1st of October, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. Charlie says the schedule ends about the 1st. I was thinking about another one.   \. I have no comment on Mr. Stassen's statement--Professor Stassen, I should say.   \. I hadn't heard about it.  \. Secretary Marshall, I think, is due in Paris the 19th of September. I think he will leave here the 17th or 18th. He is going over in the Independence. \. I can't answer that. \. Secretary Marshall I think answered that question definitely yesterday, and Secretary Marshall answered it correctly.  1 At a press conference held on September 8, Secretary Marshall stated that the United States policies toward the former Italian colonies had been formulated with bipartisan approval. \. No, I cannot. I have no comment on the Berlin situation. I think Secretary Marshall covered that yesterday as well as it can be covered at the present time. 2   2 At his press conference on September 8 Secretary Marshall denounced attacks by Communist-led mobs on the City Government of Berlin. He said that Communist efforts to disrupt conferences on the future status of Berlin must be firmly resisted and that he hoped the talks could proceed in a quiet and orderly atmosphere. \. Secretary Marshall, I think, made as definite a statement on that as it is possible to make at this time. \. Yes. We are still standing up for our rights in Berlin. There are still some more arguments to be had on the subject. We are doing everything we possibly can, through negotiation, to straighten the thing out.  \. Not yet. I will have it ready in a day or two. We are having difficulty getting a chairman. As soon as we have that chairman, I will have it for you.  \. No, that is not--no such statement as that. We have been trying to negotiate all our difficulties. We have been negotiating ever since the war ended, and we are going to continue negotiating, hoping to get a settlement. You can't settle it in any other way. \. No, we will not negotiate under duress. We have not been negotiating under duress. \. It is attempted duress, but we are not negotiating under duress. We have been negotiating right along ever since the war ended. We will continue to negotiate, always hoping we will get a peace. \. That is outside. I think Secretary Marshall commented on that very fully yesterday. \. They are under consideration. I can't give you anything definite on that until we have made a decision on it. I will let you know in plenty of time. \. Well, I will let you know about that when we get that trip definitely worked out. \. Oh no, no. \. I will let you know about that. I have gone as far as I can on that with a definite statement. Trying to get the thing arranged so that it will be satisfactory and so you won't lose too much sleep. \. I cannot guess. I thought Labor Day was a pretty good sample.  \. Well, as Mark Twain said about his death, I think that is rather exaggerated.   \. I have that matter under consideration now. I cannot give you a definite answer on it now.  \. General Marshall's statement will have to stand on just what he said.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You are entirely welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and fiftysixth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, September 9, 1948. 
