 I have no special announcements to make this morning. If you want to ask some questions, I will try to answer them.  \. I have no comment on that. The comments are being made in the press itself and over the radio. I have no comment.  \. They are both--I say they are both without foundation. \. No, it isn't.  You wouldn't get an answer. \. No, I can't answer the jackpot question this morning.  \. The Constitution, containing the Bill of Rights, was the only document considered in the writing of that message.  \. Which Mr. Pauley? \. No, I have not.  \. Yes, I have. \. No, I cannot. The Treasury is using it for a storehouse now. We haven't got any place to store the documents that are in there. \. I will discuss that question if, as, and when it becomes available.  \. It seems to me that I heard a question like that last year, about what they were going to do to my budget. I asked for an expenditure of--I asked for an authorization for 37,500 millions, and then when the budget was finally wound up, it ended up with 37,700 million, which showed that it was a tight, well-organized budget. This budget is exactly the same sort. And it's the same line of conversation we had last year, and it will get nowhere exactly.  \. I haven't discussed it with anybody.  \. Well now, you can't seem to get it off your mind. I will tell you what happened. I have countless invitations for appearances at various meetings in nearly every State in the Union. Every President has that. And the ones that we were discussing as to whether I should make an appearance were not political gatherings at all. And it was--no decision was reached as to whether I should appear at any of them or not. I have got more than I can do sitting right here at this desk, but sometimes we need a change of scenery, and the newspapermen need a ride--[ Laughter ]--so we have a party of that sort, once in a while. \. Well, there's nothing to inspect right now. If a war was going on and we needed inspection trips, we would take them. I took many a one during the war. I think I traveled one hundred thousand miles on inspection trips during the war, and they were necessary. \. I always consider invitations when they are sent to me in good faith.  \. Every American has a right to do as he pleases in a political campaign. The matter was not discussed with me. \. We will discuss that when it appears.  \. When it appears. That is another if, as, and when problem. \. Certainly. I always have. \. Well, that was a good hunch, I think. \. I have no hunches.  \. I have no hunches. \. I will answer that when the bill comes before me for consideration.  \. I don't know enough about the situation, only just what I read in the papers. I can't make any comment on that at the present time.  \. I am still in the same frame of mind that I was when I sent the anti-inflationary recommendations to the Congress. I feel just as I did at that time. That was in the message of November 17.1  1 see 1947 volume, this series, Item 224. \. As to the absolute necessity. I think it's shown that--if you are interested in the situation, I have here a new--I just happened to get from the Budget a new table on the situation--[ showing them]--which goes to show what has happened since that message went down. That message went down about--at this point here--[indicating]--and you see now they have had to put another block on this thing here, in order to get to the top. \. Yes, that's the price rise. Notice, since they weakened rent control, what's happening to the rents. They have started on the same sort of a spiral that the rest of these things have taken, after controls were taken off. \. This black line here is on commodities. The dotted line is food, and the other is clothing. It is a most interesting study. Every month I get a rehash of this price situation, and it really is alarming. \. Yes. Yes. They prepared this for me in the Bureau--in conjunction with other bureaus interested in the question. \. Yes. Yes. Very definitely. \. Yes, everything. Sure enough. \. No, this does not have anything to do with incomes. It is--I spoke of income, if you remember, in the Message on the State of the Union. The suggestion was made in the Budget Message on skimming off some of that cream at the top in profits. \. I am going to keep telling Congress just what the situation is, and the Congress will have to act itself. They have this information the same as I have. They know what is going on. \. I don't think--I think that is a bad approach to the thing, because it didn't happen. It didn't happen when we had price control. Production was ample under price control to meet the situation. And I think that if we don't find some way to stop this awful spiral with which we are faced, we will go to the logical conclusion, which is to come down in a crash; and that we don't want to see.  \. I think if you will read my anti-inflation message of November 17, it will--your question will be answered.  \. I have no comment to make on that question.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome. Note: President Truman's one hundred and thirty-sixth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 10:35 a.m. on Thursday, February 5, 1948. 
