  I have one announcement for you. Mr. Vincent Burke, the Postmaster of Washington, will be the First Assistant Postmaster General. And his background is available for you after the conference, if you want it. He has had 41 years in the postal service.  And now I am ready for questions.  \. The tax bill will be explained tomorrow before the committee  1  by the Secretary of the Treasury, and he will cover the waterfront, no doubt. That's all the comment I have to make or to explain. It will speak for itself.  1  House Committee on Ways and Means.  \. I haven't any. I was very much disappointed in the action of the senatorial committee.  2  Probably have to start over.  2  On January 13 the Senate Armed Forces Committee rejected President Truman's request for special legislation to permit Maj. Gen. Laurence S. Kuter to retain military pay and rank while serving as Chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board. On the same day, General Kuter announced that he would not resign from the Army to become Chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board. \. He is not.   3  James M. Mead, former U.S. Senator from New York.  \. The Cabinet is in complete harmony on that Message. \. Yes.  \. No, I have not.  \. Just good wishes. \. From President Peron, yes.  \. Yes, it does. \. Forty-one years. He used to be over in the Post Office Department in Washington. \. He is also taking a cut in pay by accepting this thing. He got more as Postmaster of Washington than he will get as First Assistant Postmaster General.  \. Yes, he has, and I have it under consideration. He doesn't want to quit immediately. He is going to stay on awhile.  \. I am! Your paper to the contrary notwithstanding.  \. Well, they don't know the facts, or they wouldn't be that way. And you can't explain it to them, because they don't want to know.  \. Only in special--I don't think that was in the Budget Message. You had better read it again.  There were specific instances where an increase in subsistence was not recommended, but in other instances I think you will find that it was.  \. It doesn't belong in the State of the Union Message. I have expressed my opinion on that on several occasions, and I am still for home rule in the District. But I can't act on it until it gets before me.  \. That is under consideration, but I have not made up my mind on the subject.  1 See Item 7. \. No, no. What that report means is that we ought to keep our manufacturing plants in the condition so that it would be available for an emergency, and that doesn't necessarily mean that we have to keep it on a wartime basis. \. I didn't understand it that way at all. \. There are some things-for instance atomic energy and the making of our atomic weapons--that we are not giving publicity to, and there are some things in relation to planes that we do not expect to make public. But things that have an effect on transportation and the use of planes for commercial use, will be available.  \. I can't do that until I see what legislation the Congress is going to send to me. Then I will comment on it.  \. I don't think it's necessary. I don't think there's any man here who would want to give away a secret that might be expensive to us in the long run. \. Well, I haven't discussed it with him. \. I haven't come to any such conclusion. At the same time, I hadn't considered the matter along that line at all.  \. I can't, and I have no comment to make on it.  \. I don't know that it will be a special message, but probably will be a letter 1 urging passage of the St. Lawrence Seaway project. I think the Senate committee has acted on it. I am not sure.  1 See Item 12. \. I do not. I have no further comment to make on that. Probably in the long run we will have an international police force with the United Nations plan, to which all of us are working.  \. I don't remember that point at the present time. I will look it up for you, though.  \. Not necessarily. Wherever it is necessary for the United Nations to use it and enforce its mandates.  \. No, it did not. \. Oh yes, that is what National Committeemen come in to talk about.   \. I can tell you some other thing. There was the same opposition to putting bathtubs in the White House, and a cooking stove, and gaslight.  \. Oh yes, but they did, in some instances. Entirely changed the interior of the White House when they put in bathrooms.  \. The first bathtub was put in the White House by Mrs. Fillmore. \. Mrs. Fillmore put the first bathtub in the White House, but they almost lynched her for doing it. \. I will answer that question when I get around to it. \. I suppose so.  \. Cooking stove. The cooks refused to use the cooking stove. They kept using the old fireplace. \. No President has been anything else but a temporary tenant. That will continue, I hope, as long as our Republic lasts.  \. No, I have not.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President.  THE PRESIDENT. You're welcome.  1  Lester B.  Pearson, Canadian Under Secretary of State for External Affairs. Note: President Truman's one hundred and thirty-third news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4:05 p.m. on Thursday, January 15, 1948. 
