 I have no announcements to make today, but I thought maybe you might want to ask me a question or two, and I had better let you in and let you ask them. So, fire away.  
 I gave him none.  
 Yes.  
 Yes, I did. 
 Yes. 
 No, I have no comment on that. I am sure he can. 
 Just a moment. I finish up with Mr. Pauley and then I will talk to you about that. Mr. Pauley--I thought maybe you might ask me a question like that, and I just want to reiterate what I have said before to press conference, that Mr. Pauley is on in his capacity as Chief of the American Reparations Commission.  The resources and industries of Manchuria and Korea are basic to the of any long-range plan for the peaceful economy of East Asia. Mr. Pauley's report on Japanese reparations, removals, is a splendid plan for immediate action, to utilize the productive ability of Manchuria and Korea. At the present time, however, we have little information on their current productive ability. Therefore, no final program of reparations for Japan can be evolved until we know more about the resources and industrial relations on the continent, particularly in Manchuria and Korea.  Since both the Secretary of State and I consider this to be a matter of considerable importance, we have got Mr. Pauley to undertake this firsthand study of the situation in Manchuria and Korea.  The Acting Secretary of State will have a statement on Mr. Pauley's mission.  And that is substantially what was in my letter asking Mr. Pauley to continue this. 
 You will have to ask Pauley. 
 Yes.  
 No I haven't.  
 I have no comment. 
 No comment. 
 This young man over here wants to ask me a question. I'll come back to you, if you will give me time.  
 I have no comment, outside the statement which I issued on the report of the committee. That statement stands as all I have to say at the present time. 
 No comment.  
 I think it's a good idea.  
 Suggest that you read my statement on the report. I have nothing further to say than what is in that statement.  
 I don't believe in strikes against the Government. I don't think it legal, or ever will be. Whenever they are, the Government will cease to exist.  
 Well, rationing at the present time would not meet the emergency, because there isn't time to implement it, as I have told you time and again. If there should be a disastrous crop failure, and it should become necessary for rationing, we will not hesitate to put it into effect. 
 I don't think it will do any good, under present circumstances. And if there is no crop failure, if we have bountiful crops, it won't be necessary. 
 No, I have not. I have put in all the drastic new measures I can think of to meet this situation. It's a matter where the heart of the American people has to meet it; and I think it will.  
 They have discussed the matter with my Military Aide, and that is as far as it will go.  
 No. It's--it's contemplated, and I don't think it is necessary as yet. 
 Yes.  
 I did not discuss it.  
 I don't think it will be necessary. 
 The coal strike is a very serious situation. We are viewing it with alarm. 
 Not yet. If it becomes necessary, we will. 
 Yes.  
 I do not. Did you read the whole of Secretary Forrestal's testimony? 
 He didn't say so. He didn't say so. Read it very carefully. Mr. Forrestal submitted his testimony to me before it was--before he gave it. And he has a perfect right to say what he did, and I authorized him to do it.  
 I do not.  
 No, I have not. 
 I hope soon. 
 Difficult to find the men to fill the jobs. Should we find somebody that we think is capable of taking the job, he has got a better job, or doesn't want to consider Government service. That has been true ever since the war ceased. The good men are flocking to private industry for bigger pay. It's the most difficult thing we have to face, is finding men for the places.  
 You shouldn't be. You shouldn't be. What I am going to ask you to do is read the statement. If you do that, you won't have any trouble. 
 He is not opposing the merger. 
 You wouldn't have so much trouble, if you would study these things carefully.   
 We will meet that situation when it comes before us.  
 Mr. Byrnes was making his usual report to me. This is the third-second or third time he has phoned me from Paris on what was going on in the Big Four meetings. It was nothing unusual or out of the way at all. 
 I never heard of it. I never heard of it until I saw it in the New York Times. 
 Yes, the Cabinet met yesterday, but we didn't discuss that situation. 
 There are lots of things you don't know about.  
 Well, sometimes it isn't.  
 Yes, they did not--
 -- they did not. 
 It's none of your business.  
 Well, I can hold a Cabinet meeting whenever I choose. I don't have to tell you about the Cabinet meeting.  
 Yes. 
 No, I cannot. It will be released at the proper time.  
 Your guess is as good as mine,  
 I haven't given it any serious thought. If it is necessary to do that, we will do it.  
 No, I cannot. I am in no hurry. 
 What do you mean?  
 The same situation that I told you about awhile ago. The difficulty is finding the right man for the right place.  
 Yes, I have, on several occasions. If you will read my message-the first message--you will see the measures in which I am very much interested. 
 Yes, I do.  
 It will probably be continued a while. 
 No. I will let you know when it's time. It will be discontinued just as soon as it possibly can.  
 Yes. I have given it a lot of consideration. 
 No, I can't. 
 I have not. Reporter: Well, thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's sixty-second news conference was held in his office at the White House at 4:05 p.m. on Thursday, May 2, 1946. 
