 I have no special announcements to make. I will try to answer questions, though.  
 No, I have no comment on it.  1 On June 19 Governor Frank I. Lausche of Ohio stated at the 42d annual Governors' conference at White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., that he had not decided whether he would support Joseph T. Ferguson, State Auditor of Ohio, a Democrat, or Republican Senator Robert A. Taft in the contest for Mr. Taft's position in the United States Senate. 
 Oh, we'll elect a Democrat out there without a doubt. 
 I would vote the straight Democratic ticket, as I always do. 
 I have made no plans politically as yet. 
 They were not invited. I only invited Democrats.  2  The President was scheduled to give a luncheon at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington at 1 p.m. that afternoon for 18 of the Democratic Governors attending the Governors' conference. 
 Well, what's the matter? Are you out of questions ?  
 The tax bill is not before me for comment or signature, and I can't comment on it or say what I will do on it until it comes up to me, because it is subject, of course, to changes between now and that time.  
 I am not in the Indiana primary. I am in Missouri, however. 
 I have no comment.  3 On March 6, 1950, Martin A. Hutchinson of Virginia was nominated to be a member of the Federal Trade Commission. The Senate rejected the nomination on August 9, 1950.  
 An excellent meeting. Also had an excellent meeting at Mexico and Columbia. 
 No doubt about it. Your paper is against him, and that's a good sign that he'll win. I can prove that by history.   4 State Senator Emery W. Allison of Missouri, candidate for the position of Democratic nominee for the United States Senate, was defeated in the primary election on August 1 by Thomas C. Hennings, Jr. 
 Certainly I do. That is the duty of every citizen of the United States, to vote in the primary and in the election. 
 That depends on what the situation is here. If the Congress is on the point of adjourning and bills are piling up on me, I will vote by absentee ballot, if that is allowed in the primary, and I think it is now under present Missouri law.  
 I have made no arrangements whatever for any appearances this fall. Those appearances will be arranged for the convenience of the local people and through the National Democratic Chairman, Mr. Boyle. 
 No plans made as yet.  
 That's the first I have heard of it. I haven't been invited, as yet.  
 Well, I hope so. I like that sort of traveling, particularly when it's nonpolitical.   
 I think it is a great contribution to European recovery and integration. And I think Mr. Harriman and his assistant, and Mr. Hoffman and his assistant, Mr. Foster, and particularly the Foreign Minister of France, can be complimented on the efforts they have put forth to really make a program that will contribute greatly to the European recovery and defense program. 5    5  The President referred to W. Averell Harriman, U.S. Special Representative in Europe for the Economic Cooperation Administration, Paul G. Hoffman, Administrator for Economic Cooperation, William C. Foster, Deputy Administrator for Economic Cooperation, and Robert Schuman, French Minister of Foreign Affairs.  
 That depends on whether I am invited or not. 
 I hope I will be able to go there.  
 No. It has not come before me as yet.  
 I would suggest that you get in touch with Senator McCarran. He is chairman of that committee.  
 Yes. I think that was announced. The State Department announced it yesterday, didn't they? Didn't State announce it? 
 Well, it will be Spofford, I think. He is a good man and able to fill the job capably. 6    6 Charles M. Spofford received Senate confirmation on July 13, 1950, for the post of United States Deputy Representative on the North Atlantic Council with the rank of Ambassador. See Item 195.  
 I am opposed to an air force group for which we can't pay. We have given the Air Force all the groups for which the budget can meet the expense. That is the only situation with which we are faced. It doesn't make any difference how many groups are authorized. It depends on how many groups the decision is made on-for how many groups we can pay. That's what it amounts to. 
 No, We Cannot.  
 There's one.  
 Yes sir--he has accepted.  Q. Yes sir. Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's two hundred and twentyeighth news conference was held in the Indian Treaty Room  in the Executive Office Building at 10:40 a.m. on Thursday, June 22, 1950. 
