  I have some announcements for you this time.  General Bradley will go back to the War Department on the 1st of December, and Carl R. Gray, Jr., the vice president of the Chicago, North Western Railway Company, will take over the Veterans Administration on January 1st.  General Littlejohn will send in his resignation, and it will be accepted, the 28th of November. And Gen. C. B. Cares, who is now in the War College, will be Commandant of the Marine Corps.   And I want to make it plain that at this year's Army and Navy game I am going to be the guest of the Army, and sit on that side all the time. Next year I am going to sit with the Navy, when they will be the hosts. I like to enjoy a ball game just as well as anybody else, and don't want to be the show myself. 
 I haven't gone into that. They have no school as yet, you see. They go to school both at Annapolis and at West Point, and I haven't heard of their organizing a team.  
 He will be Chief of Staff as soon as General Eisenhower goes to the Columbia University. 
 I can't answer that. That is up to General Eisenhower. 
 Well, you will have to talk to General Eisenhower. I can't give you that. 
 The 28th of November-28th of November. 
 General Bradley has certain accumulated leave coming, and he wants to make a survey of the War Department at the various headquarters around the country before he becomes Chief of Staff. He will have plenty to do. He made this request himself, and we are complying with what he wants. 
 The Deputy Administrator over there will take over. 
 Acting. Larson is his name. 
 I don't know what General Littlejohn is going to do. I know he is going to quit on the 28th. I don't know anything about his movements after that. He handed me a check--photostatic copy of the biggest check I ever saw, for $143 million that we sold that pipeline for. 
 War Assets is supposed to be liquidated by next June, and that is due to the efforts of General Littlejohn. He has done a most successful and a wonderful job. He was just tough enough to do it, and that's what it took.  Now you will have a letter from him and one from me handed to you as you go out, and you will also have the background of these appointments I made handed to you in mimeograph form.  
 No. Dillon hasn't made up his mind which one he wants. As soon as he does, I will make the transfer.  
 No, I have not.  
 No comment. The speech speaks for itself. If you don't understand it, read it again. 
 Both of them.  
 It has been very satisfactory.  
 We will have to discuss that after we get the authority. Can't do it now.  
 In about 10 days.  
 I think that that probably is correct. We never make complete use of every power that we have. We use it where it will do the most good. The export controls will expire. We are asking for their extension.  
 Russia has a purchasing mission in this country. They have been allowed to purchase those things that are necessary for the rehabilitation of Russia's electric dams that were destroyed by the Germans, and some farm machinery. 
 I see no reason to stop it now.  
 That is correct. 
 That speaks for itself. And the details will be given to the committee when they want to have a hearing. I don't want to have that hearing here.  
 He lives in St. Paul, I think. Either Minneapolis or St. Paul.  
 In the same manner that the New York Stock Exchange is controlled. 
 Well, along the same line. I can't go into details because it will have to be worked out before the committee. But we ought to have the same authority we have over the New York Stock Exchange and the Federal Reserve Bank.  
 Everything of that sort has been and is being considered. That will be given to the committees when hearings are held. You will have all that information at that time.  
 Is cotton a commodity? Is wool a commodity? 
 All right. All right--that answers your question.  Reporter: Thank you, Mr. President. Note: President Truman's one hundred and twenty-eighth news conference was held in his office at the White House at 9 o'clock on Friday morning, November 21, 1947. 
