  Thank you. Good morning. I was hoping it would be a little hotter here to prepare the traveling team for the Crawford experience this August. But thank you for coming.  I'm looking forward to going down to Texas, and I know the Members will be going back to their districts. As I travel around the country from Crawford, I'm going to be focused on two vital concerns for our country: first, the safety of the American people, and the economic security of the American people.  On national security front, it has been 90 days since the end of the major combat operations in Iraq. The nation has been liberated from tyranny and is on the path to self-government and peace. The Iraqi Governing Council is meeting regularly. Local police forces are now being trained. And citizens are being recruited into a new Iraqi military, a military that will protect the Iraqi people instead of intimidating them. Soon, representatives of the people will begin drafting a new constitution, and free elections will follow. After decades of oppression, the people of Iraq are reclaiming their country and are reclaiming their future.  Conditions in most of Iraq are growing more peaceful. Some areas, however, the violent remnants of Saddam Hussein's regime, joined by terrorists and criminals, are making a last attempt to frighten the Iraqi people and to undermine the resolve of our coalition. They will fail. Our coalition forces are taking the fight to the enemy in an unrelenting campaign that is bringing daily results. Saddam Hussein's sons did not escape the raids, and neither will other members of that despicable regime.  By taking the offensive against desperate killers, Americans in uniform are assuming great risks for our country. The American people are proud of our Armed Forces, and we are grateful for their sacrifice and their service in fighting the war on terror. We also appreciate the military families who share in the hardship and uncertainties of this essential mission.  The rise of a free and peaceful Iraq is critical to the stability of the Middle East, and a stable Middle East is critical to the security of the American people. As the blanket of fear is lifted, as Iraqis gain confidence that the former regime is gone forever, we will gain more cooperation in our search for the truth in Iraq.  We know that Saddam Hussein produced and possessed chemical and biological weapons and has used chemical weapons. We know that. He also spent years hiding his weapons of mass destruction programs from the world. We now have teams of investigators who are hard at work to uncover the truth.  The success of a free Iraq will also demonstrate to other countries in that region that national prosperity and dignity are found in representative government and free institutions. They are not found in tyranny, resentment, and for support of terrorism. As freedom advances in the Middle East, those societies will be less likely to produce ideologies of hatred and produce recruits for terror.  The United States and our allies will complete our mission in Iraq, and we'll complete our mission in Afghanistan. We'll keep our word to the peoples of those nations. We'll wage the war on terror against every enemy who plots against our forces and our people. I will never assume the restraint and good will of dangerous enemies when lives of our American citizens are at risk.  My administration is also acting to ensure the economic security of the American people. Paychecks are already reflecting the reduction in income tax rates, which is providing relief to millions of taxpayers and small businesses. American families have begun to receive checks from a $400-per-child increase in the child tax credit. This time, when we say the check's in the mail, we mean it.  Through our higher expense deduction, small businesses have an incentive to speed up purchases of new equipment. We're beginning to see hopeful signs of faster growth in the economy, which over time will yield new jobs. Yet the unemployment rate is still too high. And we will not rest until Americans looking for work can find a job.  To strengthen the economic security of the people, Congress needs to pass a sound energy bill to make sure that our households and businesses have a reliable, affordable supply of energy. Congress needs to pass legal reforms to cut down on the frivolous lawsuits that provide a drag to our economy. Congress needs to approve reemployment accounts to help citizens who have the toughest time finding work. Congress needs to make sure that the child credit is refundable for lower-income families. We must continue pursuing an aggressive, progrowth strategy that creates jobs throughout our economy.  Economic security for America's seniors is threatened by the rising cost of prescription drugs. I'm pleased that both Houses of Congress have responded by passing separate bills providing prescription drug coverage under Medicare. It's absolutely essential that the House and the Senate resolve their differences and enact a piece of legislation I can sign. The lack of coverage for prescription drugs and many preventative treatments is a major gap in Medicare that denies some of our seniors the latest and best medicine. We must keep the promise of Medicare by giving our seniors better coverage and better choices.  I congratulate the House and the Senate on a productive legislative sessionso far. I also look forward to working with the Members this coming fall on the priorities for the American people.  And now I'll be glad to answer some questions. Tom , and we'll work our way around. There's no need for any unrestrained yelling.   Military Operations in Iraq 
  Okay. Tom, I'm getting a little older, so when you ask four or five questions, it's hard for me to remember every question.  First, we do have a good rotation plan in place now for our troops. The 3d ID, which has conducted a lot of the major military operations at the beginning of the war, has now got a definite time in which they are coming home. And that in itself is a positive development. There was some concern amongst family members of the 3d ID that they were getting mixed signals, and I understand that. And now it's clear as to their rotation plan.  And by the way, as we rotate, we'll be changing the nature of the military configuration to be more of ato have more of athe capacity to move very quickly and to strike quickly, because our intelligence is getting better on the ground as we're able to pick targets, able to enrich targets and move quickly on the targets.  What other aspects of theI told you I warned you, I'm getting older.  Deaths of Uday and Qusay Hussein 
  Catching Saddam Hussein, that's right. Yes. 
  Listenright, thank you. Of course, it's important that thethat Saddam's sons were brought to justice. It changes attitudes in Iraq. People didn't believe that the Ba'athist regime was going to be gone forever. They felt like they you would hear reports of Ba'athists, former Ba'athist officials saying to Iraqi citizens, "Listen, the Americans will grow stale and tired. They'll leave and, by the way, we'll come back. And when we come back, we'll come back with a vengeance if you help in the reconstruction of the country." So, needless to say, when two of the most despicable henchmen of the Saddam Hussein regime met their fate, the Ba'athist claim that at least these two will come back and haunt the citizen isrings hollow.  I don't know how close we are to getting Saddam Hussein. You know, Iit's closer than we were yesterday, I guess. All I know is we're on the hunt. It's like if you had asked me right before we got his sons how close we were to get his sons, I'd say I don't know, but we're on the hunt.  And so we're making progress. It's slowly but surely making progress of bringing thethose who terrorize their fellow citizens to justice and making progress about convincing the Iraqi people that freedom is real. And as they become more convinced that freedom is real, they'll begin to assume more responsibilities that are required in a free society.  Steve .  War on Terror/Possible Terrorist Attacks 
  Yes. Well, first of all, the war on terror goes on, as I continually remind people. In other words, there are still Al Qaida remnants that have designs on America. The good news is that we are, one, dismantling the Al Qaida organization, and two, we're learning more information about their plans as we capture more people.  And the threat is a real threat. It's a threat that wherewe obviously don't have specific data; we don't know when, where, what. But we do know a couple of things. We do know that Al Qaida tends to use the methodologies that worked in the past. That's kind of their mindset. And we have got some data that indicates that they would like to use flights, international flights, for example.  Now, what we can do is we can be obviously, at home, continue to be diligent on the inspection process of baggage as well as making sure those who board aircraft are properly screened. And obviously, we're talking to foreign governments and foreign airlines to indicate to them the reality of the threat. We're conscious * of folks flyinggetting lists of people flying into our country and matching them now with a much improved database. International flights coming into America must have hardened cockpit doors, which is a positive development.  Being on alert means that we contact all who are responsible, who have got positions of responsibility. And so we're focusing on the airline industry right now. And we've got reason to do so. And I'm confident we will thwart the attempts.  You know, let me talk about Al Qaida just for a second. I made the statement that we're dismantling senior management, and we are. Our people have done a really good job of hauling in a lot of the key operators: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Abu Zubaydah, RamziRamzi al-Shibh or whatever the guy's name was[ laughter ] sorry, Ramzi, if I got it wrong[ laughter ]bin al-Shibh, excuse me. "Swift Sword" is dead, thanks to the Saudis. Abu Bakr is now captured by the Saudis. We're dismantling the operatingdecisionmakers.  We've got more to do. And the American people need to know we're not stopping. We've got better intelligence-gathering, better intelligence-sharing, and we're on the hunt. And we will stay on the hunt. The threat that you asked about, Steve, reminds us that we need to be on the hunt, andbecause the war on terror goes on.  John .  Report of the Joint Inquiry Into the September 11, 2001, Terrorist Attacks 
  John, the Foreign Minister did come and speak to me. And I told him this: I said we have an ongoing investigation about what may or may not have taken place prior to September the 11th. And therefore, it is important for us to hold this information close so that those who are being investigated aren't alerted.  I also told him, in the document, that if we were to reveal the content of the documentby the way, 29 pages of a near 900-page reportit would reveal sources and methods. By that I mean it would show people how we collect information and on whom we're collecting information, which, in my judgment and in the judgment of senior law enforcement officials in my administration, would be harmful on the war against terror.  I just described to you that there is a threat to the United States. And I also said, we're doing a better job of sharing intelligence and collecting data so we're able to findable to anticipate. And what we really don't want to do, it doesn't make sense to medoesn't seem like to me, is to reveal those sources and methods.  Now, at some point in time, as we make progress on the investigation and as a threat to our national security diminishes, perhaps we can put out the document. But in my judgment, now is not the time to do so.  And I made that clear to him. And I will be gladI'm making it clear to Members of Congress. I want to remind you thatsure, some have spoken out, but others have agreed with my position, like the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. So there's a different point of view. My point of view, however, since I'm in charge of fighting the war on terror, is that we won't reveal sources and methods that will compromise our efforts to succeed.  Campbell .  Saddam Hussein's Links to Al Qaida 
  Yes. I think, first of all, remember, I just said we've been there for 90 days since the cessation of major military operations. Now, I know in our world where news comes and goes and there's this kind of instant news, and you must have done this, you must do this yesterday, that there's a level of frustration by some in the media. I'm not suggesting you're frustrated. You don't look frustrated to me at all. But it's going to take time for us to gather the evidence, theanalyze the mounds of evidence, literally, the miles of documents that we have uncovered.  David Kay came to see me yesterday. He's going to testify in closed hearing tomorrow, which in Washington may not be so closed, as you know. And he was telling me the process that they were going through to analyze all the documentation. And that's not only to analyze the documentation on the weapons programs that Saddam Hussein had but also the documentation as to terrorist links.  And it's just going to take a while, and I'm confident the truth will come out. And there is no doubt in my mind, Campbell, that Saddam Hussein was a threat to the United States security and a threat to peace in the region. And there's no doubt in my mind that a free Iraq is important. It's got strategic consequences for not only achieving peace in the Middle East, but a free Iraq will help change the habits of other nations in the region who will make it which will make America much more secure.  John .  Decision To Go to War in Iraq 
  Yes. You know, look, in my line of work, it's always best to produce results, and I understand that. Thefor a while the questions were, "Could you conceivably achieve a military victory in Iraq? You know, the dust storms have slowed you down." And I was a patient man, because I realized that we would be successful in achieving our military objective.  Now, of course, the question is, will Iraq ever be free, and will it be peaceful? And I believe it will. I remind some of my friends that it took us a while to go from the Articles of Confederation to the United States Constitution. Even our own experiment with democracy didn't happen overnight. I never have expected Thomas Jefferson to emerge in Iraq in a 90-day period.  And so this is going to take time. And the world will see what I mean when I say a free Iraq will help peace in the Middle East, and a free Iraq will be important for changing the attitudes of the people in the Middle East. A free Iraq will show what is possible in a world that needs freedom, in a part of the world that needs freedom.  Let me finish for a minute, John, please. Just getting warmed up. I'm kind of finding my feet.   Saddam Hussein was a threat. The United Nations viewed him as a threat. That's why they passed 12 resolutions. Predecessors of mine viewed him as a threat. We gathered a lot of intelligence. That intelligence was good, sound intelligence on which I made a decision.  And in order to placate the critics and the cynics about intentions of the United States, we need to produce evidence. And I fully understand that. And I'm confident that our search will yield that which I strongly believe, that Saddam had a weapons program. I want to remind you, he actually used his weapons program on his own people at one point in time, which is pretty tangible evidence. But I'm confident history will prove the decision we made to be the right decision. 
  Hold on for a second. You're through, John.  Homosexuality/Definition of Marriage 
  Yes. I am mindful that we're all sinners, and I caution those who may try to take a speck out of their neighbor's eye when they got a log in their own. I think it's very important for our society to respect each individual, to welcome those with good hearts, to be a welcoming country. On the other hand, that does not mean that somebody like me needs to compromise on an issue such as marriage. And that's really where the issue is headed here in Washington, and that is the definition of marriage. I believe in the sanctity of marriage. I believe a marriage is between a man and a woman. And I think we ought to codify that one way or the other. And we've got lawyers looking at the best way to do that.  Stevenson .  Tax Cuts/National Economy 
  Yes. No, to answer the last part of your question. First of all, let mejust a quick history, recent history. The stock market started to decline in March of 2000. Then the first quarter of 2001 was a recession. And then we got attacked in 9/11. And then corporate scandals started to bubble up to the surface, which created a lack of confidence in the system. And then we had the drumbeat to war. Remember on our TV screens I'm not suggesting which network did thisbut it said, "march to war" every day from last summer until the spring"march to war, march to war." That's not a very conducive environment for people to take risk, when they hear "march to war" all the time.  And yet our economy is growing. In other words, what I'm telling you is, is that we had a lot of obstacles to overcome. The '01 tax cuts affected the recession this way: It was a shallow recession. That's positive, because I care about people being able to find a job. Someone said, "Well, maybe the recession should have been deeper in order for the rebound to be quicker." My attitude is, a deeper recession means more people would have been hurt. And I view the actions we've taken as a jobs program, job creation program.  Secondly, there are hopeful signs. I mean, most economists believe that over the next 18 months we'll see positive economic growth. Interest rates are low. Housing starts are strong. Manufacturing indexes are improving.  There are other things we can do in Washington. As I said, we need an energy bill. We certainly need tort reform. I think the class action reform that's moved out of the House and into the Senate is something that can be done, and it ought to be done quickly. In other words, what I'm saying to you is, is that there's still work to do. But I'm optimistic about the future, and I believe you'll see more jobs created, and that's going to be good for the country.  Yes. Jim Rosen .  North Korea 
  Yes. I think that one of the things that is important to understand in North Korea is that the past policy of trying to engage bilaterally didn't work. In other words, the North Koreans were ready to engage, but they didn't keep their word on their engagement. And that ought to be a clear signal to policymakers of what to expect with North Korea.  Secondly, in my judgment, the best way to convince the North Koreans to change their attitude about a nuclear weapon program is to have others in the neighborhood assume responsibility alongside the United States. So this morning, interesting enoughI'm glad you asked that question, because I can tell you that I talked to Hu Jintao this morningnot anticipation of your question, but as part of an ongoing process to encourage him to stay involved in the process of discussions with Mr. Kim Chong-il, all attempting to say to him that it is ait is not in his nation's interest to continue developing these weapons and we would like to see him dismantle those weapons programs.  As well asI told President Hu that I think it's very important for us to get Japan and South Korea and Russia involved as well. So the progress that is being made is, we're actually beginning to make serious progress about sharing responsibility on this issue in such a way that I believe will lead to an attitudinal change by Kim Chong-il, which will be very positive for peace in the region.  State of the Union Address 
  Kate . 
  How long have you beenhow long have you been in the press corps? You look like you just came. 
  Yes, congratulations. 
  Be careful whose company you're keeping, though.  
  I take personal responsibility for everything I say, of course. Absolutely. I also take responsibility for making decisions on war and peace. And I analyzed a thorough body of intelligencegood, solid, sound intelligence that led me to come to the conclusion that it was necessary to remove Saddam Hussein from power.  We gave the world a chance to do it. We hadremember there'sagain, I don't want to get repetitive here, but it's important to remind everybody that there was 12 resolutions that came out of the United Nations because others recognized the threat of Saddam Hussein. Twelve times the United Nations Security Council passed resolutions in recognition of the threat that he posed. And the difference was, is that some were not willing to act on those resolutions. We were, along with a lot of other countries, because he posed a threat.  Dr. Condoleezza Rice is an honest, fabulous person, and America is lucky to have her service. Period.  Michael Allen .  2004 Campaign 
  Just watch.  Keep going. 
  Michael, I think American people, now that they've realized I'm going to seek reelection, expect me to seek reelection. They expect me to actually do what candidates do. And so, you're right, I'll be spending some time going out and asking the American people to support me. But most of my time, as I say in my speechesas I'm sure you've been bored to tears listening tois that there is a time for politics, and that's going to be later on. I've got a lot to do. And I will continue doing my job, and my job will be to work to make America more secure.  Steve asked a question about this Al Qaida possible attack. Every day I am reminded that our Nation is still vulnerable. Every day I'm reminded about what 9/11 means to America. That's a lesson, by the way, I'll never forget, the lesson of 9/11, becauseand I remember right after 9/11 saying that this will be a different kind of war, but it's a war, and sometimes there will be action, and sometimes there won't, but we're still threatened. And I see that almost every day, Mike. And therefore, that is a major part of my job.  And the other part of my job that I talked about is the economic security of the American people. And I spend a lot of time on the economy, going out and talking to the American people about the economy, and will continue to do so.  But no, listen, since I've made the decision to run, of course I'm going to do what candidates do. And we're having pretty good success, which isit's kind of an interesting barometer, early barometer, about the support we're garnering.  Keil , Jeanne , and then Larry . Keil. Stretch. Super Stretch.  Federal Deficit/National Economy 
  We would have had deficits with or without tax cuts, for this reason: The slowdown in the economy, the decline in the stock market starting March of 2000, plus the recession, reduced the amount of revenues coming into the Federal Treasury. Secondly, we spent money on the war, and we spent money on homeland security. My attitude is, if we're going to put our troops into harm's way, they must have the very best. And there's no doubt we increased our budgets on defense and homeland security. So there would be recessions.  And so, given theI mean, there would be deficits. So given the fact that we're in a recession, which had it gone on longer than it did could have caused even more revenues to be lost to the Treasury, I had a policy decision to make. And I made the decision to address the recession by a tax cut. And so part of the deficit, no question, was caused by taxesabout 25 percent of the deficit, the other 7550 percent caused by lack of revenues, and 25 percent caused by additional spending on the war on terror.  Now, we have laid out a plan which shows that the deficit will be cut in half over the next 5 years. And that's good progress toward deficit reduction. That's assuming Congress holds the line on spending. I presented them with a 4-percent increase in the discretionary budget to help them hold the line on spending. They passed the budget. Now they've got to meet the budget in their appropriations process.  My first concern, Dick, was for those folks who couldn't find a job. And I addressed unemployment and addressed economic stagnancy with a tax cut that affected growth or the lack of growth in a positive way. And I'm optimistic about our economy. But I'm not going to stop working until people can find a job who are looking for work.  Jeanne.  Workforce and Technology 
  Sure. Listen, I fully understand what you're saying. In other words, as technology races through the economy, a lot of times worker skills don't keep up with technological change. And that's a significant issue that we've got to address in the country.  I think my idea of reemployment accounts makes a lot of sense. In essence, it says that you get $3,000 from the Federal Government to help you with training, daycare, transportation, perhaps moving to another city. And if, within a period of time, you're able to find a job, you keep the balance as a reemployment bonus.  I know the community colleges provide a very important role in worker training, worker retraining. I look forward to working with our community colleges through the Department of Education, coordinate closely with States, particularly in those States in which technology is changing the nature of the job force. I've always found the community collegeand this is from my days as the Governor of Texasfound the community college to be a very appropriate place for job training programs because they're more adaptable; their curriculums are easier to change; they're accessible. Community colleges are all over the place.  Andbut you're right. I mean, I think we need to make sure that people get the training necessary to keep up with the nature of the jobs as jobs change.  Laurence, USA Today.  Middle East Peace Process 
  I do think it's realistic. I also know when we start sliding goals, it makes progress less realistic. Absolutely, I think it's realistic, and I think we're making pretty good progress in a short period of time.  I'm impressed by Prime Minister Abbas' vision of a peaceful Palestinian state. I believe him when he says that we must rout out terror in order for a Palestinian state to exist. I believe he's true. I think Mr. Dahlan, his security chief, also recognizes that.  And we've got to help those two leaders in a couple of ways to realize that vision of a peaceful Palestinian state. One is to provide help and strategy to Mr. Dahlan so that he can lead Palestinian security forces to the dismantlement of bomb-making factories, rocket-making factories inside Gaza and the West Bank. That's going to be a very important part of earning the confidence of the world, for that matter. We've also got to recognize that there are things that can happen on the ground that will strengthen Mr. Abbas' hand, relative to the competition, movingfor example, movement throughout the country.  So I spent time talking to Prime Minister Sharon yesterday about checkpoints. We discussed the difference between a checkpoint for security purposes and a checkpoint that might be there that'sthat isn'tthere for inconvenience purposes, let me put it to you that way. We talked about all the thorny issues.  But the most important thing is that we now have an interlocutor in Mr. Abbas who is committed to peace and who believes in the aspirations of the Palestinian people.  One of the most interesting visits I've had on this issue took place in the Oval Office there with the Finance Minister of the Palestinian Authority. I was pleased to discover that heI think he received a degree from the University of Texas, which gave me even more confidence when he spoke. But he is ahe talked about how a free state, free country, will flourish when the Palestinians are just given a chance.  See, he believes in the Palestinian people to the point where he's willing to take risks for peace. As I understand it, he's put the Palestinian budget on the web page. That'sthat's what we call transparency in the diplomatic world. It means that he's willing to show the finances to make it clear they're not stealing moneyis another way to put it. That's a positive development, Larry.  So Iwhat I first look at is attitudes. I also believe Prime Minister Sharon is committed to a peaceful Palestinian state. He's committed because he understands that I will in no way compromise the security of the Israeli peopleor the Palestinian people, for that matterto terror, that he knows when I say we're willing to fight terror, we mean it, because we proved it.  I thought it was interesting yesterday, by the way, that he spoke clearly about Iraq and the importance of Iraq in terms of Middle Eastern peace as well. And I believe he's right on that. I believe that a free Iraq will make it easier to achieve peace in that part of the world. I also know that we've got to get others in the neighborhood to continue to remind certain countries that it will be frowned upon if they destabilize the process.  The stated objective of Iran is the destruction of Israel, for example. And we've got to work in a collective way with other nations to remind Iran that they shouldn't develop a nuclear weapon. It's going to require more than one voice saying that, however. It's going to require a collective effort of the Europeans, for example, to recognize the true threat of an armed Iran to achieving peace in the Middle East. Andbut I'm pleased by the attitudes.  You know, when I was in Aqaba, I don't know if you remember, but I asked Prime Minister Sharon and Prime Minister Abbas to go outside. I wanted to watch the body language, first and foremost, just to make sure we weren't fooling ourselves, that when leaders commit to being able to work with each other, you can get a pretty good sense of that commitment.  What was also interesting on the outside meetingI mean, it was a very cordial discussion, and there was the desire for these leaders to talk. And they have talked since the Aqaba meeting, and that's a positive development. But what was also interesting, as Condi reported to me later, to watch the discussions between the differentboth Cabinets. And we were watching carefully to determine if there's the will for peace. We have found a person who has got the will to work for peace, and that's Prime Minister Abbas.  We'll work through the issues that are nettlesome. And there will be some big issues that come along. But the first thing that has to happen is, the Palestinian people have got to realize there's hope in a free society. And if they choose the leader that is most likely tochoose to back the leader that is most likely to deliver that hope.  Carl .  HIV/AIDS Initiative   
  Okay. 
  Yes, I will, Carl, absolutely, $15 billion. Now, that's not new money. The person who said it's $15 billion on top of that which we're already$10 billion on top of that which we're already spending equals the $15 billion. Secondly, there is some discussion about the first-year budget. In other words, we didn't send up a budget$15 billion over 5we didn't send up $3 billion. We sent up something less than $3 billion, because we didn't think the program could ramp up fast enough to absorb that amount of money early.  So it's notpeople then say, "Well, wait a minute. He doesn't believe what he said." Well, that's just simply not true. As a matter of fact, after my trip to Africa, I know we're doing the right thing, even more.  But the OMB came up with a plan that allows for a smaller amount in the beginning. I think it's about a little less than $2.5 billion initially, and it ramps up more in the out-years as the program is capable of absorbing a lot of money.  You know, one of the things we looked for over there in Africa was whether or not countries could absorb money. In other words, whetherfor example, was the distribution system for antiretrovirals in place? It doesn't make any sense to load up on antiretrovirals if the distribution system won't get them out. In other words, there's some things some countries have to do to prepare for the arrival of a lot of money, and we recognize that, Carl.  The commitment is there, absolutely. And a matter of fact, we're doing the right thing in Africa. The American people have got to understand that we're a blessed country, and when we find the kind of suffering that exists in Africa, we will help. And we are.  Liberia 
  You want to ask a Liberian question? Please do. 
  Yes, very good question. First of all, the conditions that I laid out for the Liberian rescue mission still exist. Charles Taylor must go; the cease-fire must be in place; and we will be there to help ECOWAS. And so we're working to get those conditions in place. And we will continue working to get them in place until they are in place, at which point we will then take the necessary steps to get ECOWAS in place so that we can deliver aid and help to suffering Liberians.  I also want to remind you, I also said the troop strength will be limited and the timeframe will be limited. And we're working on that. The idea, of course, is to go in, stabilize the situation, get the NGOs moving back in toto their positions to be able to help deliver aid, and then work immediately with the United Nations to provide blue helmetsmaybe blue helmets, some of the ECOWAS forces in place, provide other blue helmets, and that the United Nations would then take up the peacekeeping mission as well as the political mission in order to provide the framework for a transition to democracy. And hopefully, that will help stabilize the situation. I think it will.  Hutch .  Iran 
  No, Ilook, Hutch, I remember right after Iraq the first thing that happened out ofout of some writers' pens was that, "Oh, no, they're getting ready to attack either Syria or Iran." You know, the march to war is a campaign that's just going to march everywhere.  Iall options remain on the table. I believe that the best way to deal with the Iranians at this point in time is to convince others to join us in a clear declaration that the development of a nuclear weapon is not in their interests. I believe a free Iraq will affect the lives of Iranians. I want to thank the diaspora here in the United States, particularly in L.A.which reminds me, my last question is going to Ed . Andso you can prepare for it, Ed. We've got a lot of our fellow citizens who are in e-mail contact, phone contact with people who live throughout Iran. And I want to thank them for that.  Interestingly enough, there's a TV station that I think has beenpeople have read about that is broadcast out of L.A. by one of our citizens. He'she or she has footed the bill. It's widely watched. The people of Iran are interested in freedom, and we stand by their side. We stand on the side of those who are desperate for freedom in Iran. We understand their frustrations in living in a society that is totalitarian in nature. And now is the time for the world to come together, Ron, to send a clear message.  And so I spent time with Prime Minister Berlusconi on the ranch, and I talked to him about the need for the EU to send a very clear message, along with the United States. As you knowsome of you have been on the trips with me to Russia, and you remember me talking with my friend Vladimir Putin about the need to be mindful of the Iranians' desire to have a nuclear weapon. We're making progress there. I really believe that we can solve this issue peacefully, but this is an issue that's going to require a concerted effort by nations around the world to work with the United States, particularly in Europe, to speak clearly to the Iranian administration.  The other thing that's interesting about Iran is that they do have Al Qaida. They've admitted they got Al Qaida. Now, that's positive, that the Al Qaida is not talking to anybody. I mean, I would rather them be held somewhere other than out moving around, plotting and planning. And I would just hope the Iranians would listen to the request of countries in their neighborhood to turn them over. In other words, some of the countries of origin for these Al Qaida operatives have asked for those Al Qaida detainees to be sent back to the country of origin. It would be very helpful for the Iranians to make that decision.  Ed, last question. 
  Hold on for a minute, please. Ed.  California Recall Campaign 
  Ed, let me tell you how I view it. I've got a lot of things on my mind, and I view it like a interested political observer would view it. You know, it's kind of awe're not used to recalls in Texas, for example, thankfully. I think thatI think the most important opinion is not mine, but it's the people of California. Their opinion is what matters on a recall. It's their decision to decide whether or not there will be a recall, which they decided. Now they get to decide who the Governor is going to be. And that's really my only comment I've got.  Listen, thank you all very much for giving me a chance to come and answer some of your questions. For those of you who are traveling to Crawford, gosh, did you luck out. And we look forward to seeing you there.  Thank you.
